
 
https://mafco.com
The Global Leader in Licorice Products - Mafco Worldwide Skip to content Request a Sample Speak with an Expert Phone +1-856-964-8840 Location View Our Locations Home MagnaSweet® Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Phone +1-856-964-8840 Toggle Menu The Global Leader in Licorice Products Featuring MagnaSweet for Food, Beverage, Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Applications & Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza for Cosmetic and Personal Care Applications Masking & Sweetness Improvement MagnaSweet for Food, Beverage, Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Applications Personal Care Applications Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza for Cosmetic and Personal Care Applications About Mafco Worldwide The Global Leader in Licorice Products and Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza for Over 170 Years. MagnaSweet® for Food, Beverage, Pharmaceutical, and Nutraceutical Applications MagnaSweet is a family of products derived from glycyrrhizic acid which is the unique ingredient found in licorice root that has a characteristically intense and long-lasting sweet taste. MagnaSweet® Key Performance Attributes: Eliminate Aftertastes : MagnaSweet® eliminates undesirable aftertastes including bitter, astringent, sour, acidic, metallic, and medicinal aftertastes through its delayed and long-lasting sweetness onset which matches the time and intensity of the onset of aftertaste. Intensify and Extend Sweetness : MagnaSweet’s® delayed and long-lasting sweetness onset, when combined with other sweeteners or ingredients containing natural sweeteners, intensifies and extends sweetness. Enhance and Prolong Flavors : MagnaSweet® improves flavor strength and extends flavor duration in beverages, gummies, chewable vitamins, lozenges, chewing gum and chocolate. Improve Mouthfeel : MagnaSweet® products increase the perception of mouthfeel to create a “silky smooth” texture in reduced fat and fat-free products as well as a fuller mouthfeel in sugar-free products. Enhance Savory Flavors Salt Flavor Modulation Sugar-Free Beverages Mouthfeel Modulation Enhances Coffee Mouthfeel Modulation Salt Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Protein Flavor Masking Enhance Savory Flavors Salt Flavor Modulation Sugar-Free Beverages Mouthfeel Modulation Enhances Coffee Mouthfeel Modulation Salt Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation MagnaSweet® Primary Functional Applications: Improve and Extend the Sweetness of Reduced Sugar and Sugar-Free Beverages and Foods. Magnasweet® masks the aftertaste and prolongs sweetness when combined with stevia or other high-intensity sweeteners in low-sugar and sugar-free foods and drinks. Magnasweet® is especially effective in replacing aspartame with stevia. Block Bitterness in Food and Beverages Magnasweet® reduces or eliminates the metallic and bitter flavor off-notes and aftertastes that are characteristic of functional ingredients. Mask Off-Notes and Bitterness of Pharmaceutical Actives and Nutraceutical Functional Ingredients Magnasweet® masks unpleasant flavors and eliminates lingering aftertastes from pharmaceutical actives and nutraceutical functional ingredients in cough and cold syrups, chewable tablets and gummies. Reduce / Eliminate Off-tastes from Plant and Dairy Proteins Magnasweet® masks the green, cardboard, or earthy notes of dairy and plant proteins to allow for higher doses of plant proteins in your formulations. Intensify and Extend Sweetness MagnaSweet’s® delayed and long-lasting sweetness onset, when combined with other sweeteners or ingredients containing natural sweeteners, intensifies and extends sweetness. Enhance Savory Flavors and Enable Sodium Salt Reduction Magnasweet® increases the perception of saltiness and umami flavors without adding sodium and masks the metallic aftertaste of potassium salts. Improve Mouthfeel in Low-fat Foods and Beverages Magnasweet® increases the perception of fullness and improves mouthfeel in low-fat and low-sugar applications to simulate a creamy or silky texture. MagnaSweet® Product Portfolio The MagnaSweet® product portfolio is divided into four main categories: MM100 The Magnasweet® 100 Series is the essential tool for masking or eliminating the aftertaste, intensifying sweetness, extending sweetness, and enhancing other flavors. Available in both liquid and powder forms. MM200 MagnaSweet® 200 Series has improved solubility at low pH, better initial sweetness, and greater sweetness intensity. Available in both liquid and powder forms. MM300 MagnaSweet® 300 Series masks or eliminates aftertastes, enhances and extends flavors, and modulates sweetness. Used in savory, tomato-based, vanilla, coffee, and chocolate-flavored products. Compounds Our Compound Solutions provide sweetness modulation, masking, and mouthfeel enhancement and are particularly useful in solving issues with local regulatory compliance. Pure Licorice Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza Used in Cosmetic and Personal Care Consumer Products Mafco’s Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza are used extensively in hundreds of global brand-name consumer cosmetic and personal care products. Mafco’s Pure Derivatives are based on unique compounds found only in licorice roots from the glycyrrhiza species plants native to the Mediterranean, Central Asia, and the Far East. The licorice root has been used for homeopathic medicinal purposes for thousands of years in the Far East and has extensive topical uses in skin care. Glycyrrhizic acid, flavonoids and chalcones unique to the licorice root are widely used in cosmetic and personal care products for their antioxidant, stabilizing, soothing, calming, and skin-brightening benefits. Pure Derivatives Functional Properties Pure Licorice Derivative products for cosmetic and personal care fall into three main functional benefit categories: Neuro-Friendly: For sensitive skin, skin soothing, calming, and neuro-friendly activity and for skin conditions including redness and irritation. Hydrating and Stabilizing : For skin rejuvenation and repair products with anti-oxidative, hydrating, and stabilizing properties to support the skin barrier and microbiome. Pure licorice derivatives contain flavonoid-rich antioxidant components that decrease reactive oxygen in the skin barrier. Brighter Looking Skin : Skin brightening products to combat skin discoloration, improve uneven skin tone, and for smoother and brighter-looking skin. Pure Licorice Derivatives contain liquiritin and glabradine, which help combat discoloration and uneven skin tone. Speak With An Expert Pure Licorice Derivatives Are Used for Their Functional Benefits in These Personal Care Products: Baby products – shampoos, lotions, wipes and powders Eye care products – liners, shadows, lotions, makeup removers, mascaras, eyelash and eyebrow products Hair preparations – conditioners, rinses and shampoos Makeup preparations – blushers and rouges, powders, foundations and body paints Lip care products – lipsticks, lip glosses, lip balms, and bases Nail preparations – Nail creams and lotions Personal cleanliness – bath soaps, body washes, and deodorants Shaving preparations – aftershave lotions, pre-shave lotions, shaving creams and soaps Skin care – moisturizing and cleansing preparations, skin, body and hand creams, lotions, exfoliants, serums, essences, and masks Sun and after-sun preparations – Suntan gels, creams, screens, and liquids Skin Lotions Shampoo Tintures Skin Care Lip Gloss Products Make Up Powders Sunscreen Lotion Pharmaceutical Salves Skin Lotions Shampoo Tintures Skin Care Lip Gloss Products Make Up Powders Sunscreen Lotion Pharmaceutical Salves Pure Licorice Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza Products: Mafco’s product range is built upon the distinctive and natural chemistry of licorice root, leveraging its specific functional properties. Learn more about the production descriptions, physical & chemical properties, and typical analytical values for the Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza Series . Monoammonium Glycyrrhizinate (Ammoniated Glycyrrhizate) Dipotassium Glycyrrhizinate (Dipotassium Glycyrrhizate) Glabridin 10% (Glycyrrhiza Glabra Root Extract) Glabridin 40% (Glycyrrhiza Glabra Root Extract) Glabridin 90% (Glycyrrhiza Glabra Root Extract) Stearyl Glycyrrhetinate Glycyrrhizic Acid Licochalcone Liquiritin Ex-Vivo Studies Mafco-EVD has a secure website with Ex-Vivo studies on the effect of licorice products on: Soothing of the skin Oily Skin Skin microbiota Aging Skin pigmentation and depigmentation Neuro activity Antioxidant activity If you are a professional working in the areas of product research development, you can request to view these studies by clicking this link . About Mafco Mafco Worldwide LLC, established in 1850 is the global leader in the supply of products made from licorice roots for more than 170 years. These roots come from the Glycyrrhiza species of plants, which grow wild in Central Asia, China, and the Middle East. Licorice root is the only plant known to naturally synthesize glycyrrhizic acid, a key compound used extensively in food, beverage, pharmaceutical, and personal care products. The licorice roots can be several inches thick and up to 25 feet long and are harvested when the plant is approximately four years old. The roots are cleaned, dried, and bagged or pressed into bales. Mafco’s long history, strong reputation , focused business approach, global manufacturing presence, advanced technical capabilities, and solid financial standing make it the preferred global supplier for all kinds of licorice products to consumer product manufacturers. Speak With An Expert Let’s Craft Your Next Creation! Mafco’s MagnaSweet® lines of products are extraordinary and versatile masking agents, sweetness intensifiers and extenders, and flavor enhancers. They are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications. Please let us know how we can help with your next incredible creation! Start with a Sample MagnaSweet® General Inquiries Request a Quote FAQ General Inquiries Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Quote Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Sample Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Speak with an Expert Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Copyright © 2023 Mafco Worldwide LLC. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy Notice Another Design by: LDR Design Agency Home MagnaSweet® Toggle child menu Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Our Locations FAQ Request a Sample Call Us


 
https://mafco.com/
The Global Leader in Licorice Products - Mafco Worldwide Skip to content Request a Sample Speak with an Expert Phone +1-856-964-8840 Location View Our Locations Home MagnaSweet® Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Phone +1-856-964-8840 Toggle Menu The Global Leader in Licorice Products Featuring MagnaSweet for Food, Beverage, Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Applications & Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza for Cosmetic and Personal Care Applications Masking & Sweetness Improvement MagnaSweet for Food, Beverage, Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Applications Personal Care Applications Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza for Cosmetic and Personal Care Applications About Mafco Worldwide The Global Leader in Licorice Products and Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza for Over 170 Years. MagnaSweet® for Food, Beverage, Pharmaceutical, and Nutraceutical Applications MagnaSweet is a family of products derived from glycyrrhizic acid which is the unique ingredient found in licorice root that has a characteristically intense and long-lasting sweet taste. MagnaSweet® Key Performance Attributes: Eliminate Aftertastes : MagnaSweet® eliminates undesirable aftertastes including bitter, astringent, sour, acidic, metallic, and medicinal aftertastes through its delayed and long-lasting sweetness onset which matches the time and intensity of the onset of aftertaste. Intensify and Extend Sweetness : MagnaSweet’s® delayed and long-lasting sweetness onset, when combined with other sweeteners or ingredients containing natural sweeteners, intensifies and extends sweetness. Enhance and Prolong Flavors : MagnaSweet® improves flavor strength and extends flavor duration in beverages, gummies, chewable vitamins, lozenges, chewing gum and chocolate. Improve Mouthfeel : MagnaSweet® products increase the perception of mouthfeel to create a “silky smooth” texture in reduced fat and fat-free products as well as a fuller mouthfeel in sugar-free products. Enhances Coffee Mouthfeel Modulation Salt Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Protein Flavor Masking Enhance Savory Flavors Salt Flavor Modulation Sugar-Free Beverages Mouthfeel Modulation MagnaSweet® Primary Functional Applications: Improve and Extend the Sweetness of Reduced Sugar and Sugar-Free Beverages and Foods. Magnasweet® masks the aftertaste and prolongs sweetness when combined with stevia or other high-intensity sweeteners in low-sugar and sugar-free foods and drinks. Magnasweet® is especially effective in replacing aspartame with stevia. Block Bitterness in Food and Beverages Magnasweet® reduces or eliminates the metallic and bitter flavor off-notes and aftertastes that are characteristic of functional ingredients. Mask Off-Notes and Bitterness of Pharmaceutical Actives and Nutraceutical Functional Ingredients Magnasweet® masks unpleasant flavors and eliminates lingering aftertastes from pharmaceutical actives and nutraceutical functional ingredients in cough and cold syrups, chewable tablets and gummies. Reduce / Eliminate Off-tastes from Plant and Dairy Proteins Magnasweet® masks the green, cardboard, or earthy notes of dairy and plant proteins to allow for higher doses of plant proteins in your formulations. Intensify and Extend Sweetness MagnaSweet’s® delayed and long-lasting sweetness onset, when combined with other sweeteners or ingredients containing natural sweeteners, intensifies and extends sweetness. Enhance Savory Flavors and Enable Sodium Salt Reduction Magnasweet® increases the perception of saltiness and umami flavors without adding sodium and masks the metallic aftertaste of potassium salts. Improve Mouthfeel in Low-fat Foods and Beverages Magnasweet® increases the perception of fullness and improves mouthfeel in low-fat and low-sugar applications to simulate a creamy or silky texture. MagnaSweet® Product Portfolio The MagnaSweet® product portfolio is divided into four main categories: MM100 The Magnasweet® 100 Series is the essential tool for masking or eliminating the aftertaste, intensifying sweetness, extending sweetness, and enhancing other flavors. Available in both liquid and powder forms. MM200 MagnaSweet® 200 Series has improved solubility at low pH, better initial sweetness, and greater sweetness intensity. Available in both liquid and powder forms. MM300 MagnaSweet® 300 Series masks or eliminates aftertastes, enhances and extends flavors, and modulates sweetness. Used in savory, tomato-based, vanilla, coffee, and chocolate-flavored products. Compounds Our Compound Solutions provide sweetness modulation, masking, and mouthfeel enhancement and are particularly useful in solving issues with local regulatory compliance. Pure Licorice Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza Used in Cosmetic and Personal Care Consumer Products Mafco’s Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza are used extensively in hundreds of global brand-name consumer cosmetic and personal care products. Mafco’s Pure Derivatives are based on unique compounds found only in licorice roots from the glycyrrhiza species plants native to the Mediterranean, Central Asia, and the Far East. The licorice root has been used for homeopathic medicinal purposes for thousands of years in the Far East and has extensive topical uses in skin care. Glycyrrhizic acid, flavonoids and chalcones unique to the licorice root are widely used in cosmetic and personal care products for their antioxidant, stabilizing, soothing, calming, and skin-brightening benefits. Pure Derivatives Functional Properties Pure Licorice Derivative products for cosmetic and personal care fall into three main functional benefit categories: Neuro-Friendly: For sensitive skin, skin soothing, calming, and neuro-friendly activity and for skin conditions including redness and irritation. Hydrating and Stabilizing : For skin rejuvenation and repair products with anti-oxidative, hydrating, and stabilizing properties to support the skin barrier and microbiome. Pure licorice derivatives contain flavonoid-rich antioxidant components that decrease reactive oxygen in the skin barrier. Brighter Looking Skin : Skin brightening products to combat skin discoloration, improve uneven skin tone, and for smoother and brighter-looking skin. Pure Licorice Derivatives contain liquiritin and glabradine, which help combat discoloration and uneven skin tone. Speak With An Expert Pure Licorice Derivatives Are Used for Their Functional Benefits in These Personal Care Products: Baby products – shampoos, lotions, wipes and powders Eye care products – liners, shadows, lotions, makeup removers, mascaras, eyelash and eyebrow products Hair preparations – conditioners, rinses and shampoos Makeup preparations – blushers and rouges, powders, foundations and body paints Lip care products – lipsticks, lip glosses, lip balms, and bases Nail preparations – Nail creams and lotions Personal cleanliness – bath soaps, body washes, and deodorants Shaving preparations – aftershave lotions, pre-shave lotions, shaving creams and soaps Skin care – moisturizing and cleansing preparations, skin, body and hand creams, lotions, exfoliants, serums, essences, and masks Sun and after-sun preparations – Suntan gels, creams, screens, and liquids Lip Gloss Products Make Up Powders Sunscreen Lotion Pharmaceutical Salves Skin Lotions Shampoo Tintures Skin Care Pure Licorice Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza Products: Mafco’s product range is built upon the distinctive and natural chemistry of licorice root, leveraging its specific functional properties. Learn more about the production descriptions, physical & chemical properties, and typical analytical values for the Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza Series . Monoammonium Glycyrrhizinate (Ammoniated Glycyrrhizate) Dipotassium Glycyrrhizinate (Dipotassium Glycyrrhizate) Glabridin 10% (Glycyrrhiza Glabra Root Extract) Glabridin 40% (Glycyrrhiza Glabra Root Extract) Glabridin 90% (Glycyrrhiza Glabra Root Extract) Stearyl Glycyrrhetinate Glycyrrhizic Acid Licochalcone Liquiritin Ex-Vivo Studies Mafco-EVD has a secure website with Ex-Vivo studies on the effect of licorice products on: Soothing of the skin Oily Skin Skin microbiota Aging Skin pigmentation and depigmentation Neuro activity Antioxidant activity If you are a professional working in the areas of product research development, you can request to view these studies by clicking this link . About Mafco Mafco Worldwide LLC, established in 1850 is the global leader in the supply of products made from licorice roots for more than 170 years. These roots come from the Glycyrrhiza species of plants, which grow wild in Central Asia, China, and the Middle East. Licorice root is the only plant known to naturally synthesize glycyrrhizic acid, a key compound used extensively in food, beverage, pharmaceutical, and personal care products. The licorice roots can be several inches thick and up to 25 feet long and are harvested when the plant is approximately four years old. The roots are cleaned, dried, and bagged or pressed into bales. Mafco’s long history, strong reputation , focused business approach, global manufacturing presence, advanced technical capabilities, and solid financial standing make it the preferred global supplier for all kinds of licorice products to consumer product manufacturers. Speak With An Expert Let’s Craft Your Next Creation! Mafco’s MagnaSweet® lines of products are extraordinary and versatile masking agents, sweetness intensifiers and extenders, and flavor enhancers. They are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications. Please let us know how we can help with your next incredible creation! Start with a Sample MagnaSweet® General Inquiries Request a Quote FAQ General Inquiries Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Quote Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Sample Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Speak with an Expert Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Copyright © 2023 Mafco Worldwide LLC. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy Notice Another Design by: LDR Design Agency Home MagnaSweet® Toggle child menu Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Our Locations FAQ Request a Sample Call Us ×


 
https://mafco.com/locations
Our Locations - Mafco Worldwide Skip to content Request a Sample Speak with an Expert Phone +1-856-964-8840 Location View Our Locations Home MagnaSweet® Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Phone +1-856-964-8840 Toggle Menu Our Locations Home \- Our Locations Contact Mafco To Enhance Your Food Products. With a history spanning over 170 years, Mafco has established itself as the leading global producer of licorice products derived from natural* plant sources. These products find application in a diverse array of consumer products. If you reach out to any of our locations , our team of experts is ready to assist you in bringing your next remarkable creation to life. *Depending on the function and/or usage level in the product, and can vary by country US Headquarters and Global R&D Center 161 Gaither Dr. Ste #205 Mt. Laurel, NJ 08054 USA Ph# +1-856-964-8840 Commercial: neworders@mafcolicorice.com Mary Forrest: mforrest@mafcolicorice.com Global Manufacturing and Distribution Footprint Americas Richmond, VA (Mafco) Licorice Extract Manufacturing and Distribution of Products to the Americas. 4400 Williamsburg Ave Richmond, VA 23231 USA PH# +1-804-222-1600 Email: neworders@mafcolicorice.com Mafco Camden Magnasweet Manufacturing 300 Jefferson Street Camden, NJ 008104 USA Ph# +1-856-964-8840 Email: neworders@mafcolicorice.com EMEA & India EVD – Extraits Vegetaix Et Derives Principal Manufacturing Site for Licorice Extracts, Distribution to EMEA & India. Zl La Plaun 13120 Gardanne France PH# +33 6 10 49 9532 Email: gwenn.boie@evd.fr Mafco India India Sales Office 403 4th Floor, Global Foyer Mall, Sector 42 Gurgaon Haryana 122002 India Ph# +91 704 232 3332 Email: schauhan@mafcolicorice.com Pacific Rim & China Zhangjiagang Free Trade Zone Mafco Biotech Co., LTD Manufacturing of Licorice Deriviates and Distribution to Asia. No. 15 Tianjin Road Zhangjiagang Free Trade Zone, Jiangsu Province 215633 China Ph# +86 21 52371707 Email jhe@mafco-china.com Shanghai Mafco Biotech Co., LTD Manufacturing of Licorice Deriviates and Distribution to Asia. No. 350 Nanhuan Road Songjiang Industrial Zone, Shanghai, 201612 China Ph# +86 21 52371707 Email jhe@mafco-china.com Global Account Managers Danielle James Sales Director PH# +1-856-580-1792 djames@mafcolicorice.com Kelli Mehmood Sales Representative PH# +1-856-548-1144 kmehmood@mafcolicorice.com Gwenn Boie Sales Manager Ph# +33 6 10 49 95 32 gwenn.boie@evd.fr Sanjay Chauhan Head of Sales South Asia, MEA & ANZ Ph# +91-704232332 schauhan@mafcolicorice.com Kanda Wanichkanjanakul Director of Sales Ph# +66-81-815-7867 kanda.wanichkanjanakul@wholeearthbrands.com Jessie He Director of Sales China Operations Ph# +86-21-52371707 jhe@mafco-china.com Lynn Sei Business Development Manager Japan Market Ph# +86-21-52371707 lynns@mafco-china.com Request a Sample Speak with an Expert Request a Quote General Inquiries Let’s Craft Your Next Creation! Mafco’s MagnaSweet® lines of products are extraordinary and versatile masking agents, sweetness intensifiers and extenders, and flavor enhancers. They are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications. Please let us know how we can help with your next incredible creation! Start with a Sample MagnaSweet® General Inquiries Request a Quote FAQ General Inquiries Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Quote Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Sample Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Speak with an Expert Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Copyright © 2023 Mafco Worldwide LLC. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy Notice Another Design by: LDR Design Agency Home MagnaSweet® Toggle child menu Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Our Locations FAQ Request a Sample Call Us ×


 
https://mafco.com/magnasweet
MagnaSweet® for Food & Pharmaceutical - Mafco Worldwide Press Alt+1 for screen-reader mode, Alt+0 to cancel Accessibility Screen-Reader Guide, Feedback, and Issue Reporting Skip to content Request a Sample Speak with an Expert Phone +1-856-964-8840 Location View Our Locations Home MagnaSweet® Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Phone +1-856-964-8840 Toggle Menu MagnaSweet® for Food & Pharmaceutical Home \- MagnaSweet® for Food & Pharmaceutical Improve Taste & Mouthfeel with MagnaSweet® MagnaSweet® is a family of products derived from Glycyrrhizic Acid. Glycyrrhizic Acid is the unique ingredient found in licorice root that has a characteristically intense and long-lasting sweet taste. The MagnaSweet® Series is a line of products based on Monoammonium Glycyrrhizinate (MAG), which is the ammonia salt form of Glycyrrhizic Acid, and does not impart any licorice flavor. MagnaSweet® may be classified as non-GMO, Kosher, Halal, Natural* (depending on local regulations), and GRAS. Our products are effective at extremely low dosages and stable under most processing conditions. Mafco through its MagnaSweet line, offers versatile sweetness intensifiers, masking agents, mouthfeel modulators , and flavor enhancers. Our products are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications in diverse industries such as foods, beverages, pharmaceuticals , and nutraceuticals. In its pure form, Glycyrrhizic Acid imparts no licorice flavor and can be used to intensify sweetness, enhance flavors, and eliminate undesirable tastes. MagnaSweet® Key Performance Attributes: Eliminate Aftertastes Mafco delivers technically advanced solutions for a wide range of applications to specifically target and eliminate undesirable aftertastes. These are bitter, astringent, sour, acidic, metallic, and medicinal aftertaste often encountered in consumer products. Intensify and Extend Sweetness MagnaSweet® utilizes the naturally present sweetness compounds found in Glycyrrhizic Acid as a basis for its sweet taste. The synergistic properties of Glycyrrhizic Acid, when combined with another sweetener or an ingredient containing natural sweeteners, increase and extend the sweetness flavor profile of consumer products. Enhance and Prolong Flavors MagnaSweet® improves taste perception in product applications by improving the flavor strength and extending flavor duration. Applications including beverages, gummies, chewable vitamins, lozenges, chewing gum, chocolate, and more, are particularly well suited for flavor enhancement using MagnaSweet®. Improve Mouthfeel MagnaSweet® products have a unique sensorial property of increasing the perception of mouthfeel. This attribute is triggered by the hydro-colloidic effect of certain MagnaSweet® products with water to create a “silky smooth” texture in reduced fat and fat-free products as well as a fuller mouthfeel in sugar-free products. Innovative & Cost-Effective Taste Solutions Supporting a Range of Product Applications MagnaSweet® products are used extensively in a wide range of food, beverage, pharmaceutical, confectionery, and nutraceutical products. They are effective flavor modulation tools that provide excellent bitterness and aftertaste masking, sweetness intensification and prolongation, flavor enhancement, and mouthfeel improvement. MagnaSweet® Primary Functional Applications: Improve and Extend the Sweetness of Reduced Sugar and Sugar-Free Beverages and Foods. Make your products taste as sweet as they need to be without the added cost, calories, or sugar thanks to MagnaSweet® products, which enhance the sweetness and natural flavors in a wide range of applications. Magnasweet® products work particularly well in applications looking to replace aspartame with stevia. Magnasweet® masks the characteristic aftertaste of stevia to deliver improved and well-rounded sweetness in a variety of low-sugar and sugar-free foods and beverages. Block Bitterness in Food and Beverages Reduce metallic and bitter flavor notes that are characteristic of functional ingredients. Our bitter modulation products mask off-notes and lingering aftertastes to improve the overall flavor profile. Mask Off-Notes and Bitterness of Pharmaceutical Actives and Nutraceuticals Mask unpleasant flavors and eliminate lingering aftertastes from pharmaceutical actives and nutraceutical functional ingredients to help improve the consumer experience and taste profile of your products. This improvement works in syrups, chewies, and gummies. Reduce / Eliminate Off-tastes from Plant and Dairy Proteins Mask off-notes associated with plant and dairy proteins , such as green, cardboard, or earthy notes, and allow for higher doses of plant proteins in your formulations. Reduce bitter and unpleasant lingering aftertastes. Enhance Savory Flavors and Enable Sodium Salt Reduction Enhance and optimize overall taste with a well-rounded flavor profile. Increase the perception of saltiness and umami flavors without adding sodium. Improve Mouthfeel in Low-fat Foods and Beverages Increase fullness and improve mouthfeel in low-fat and low-sugar applications to simulate a creamy or silky texture. Used to compensate for products with a chalky or thin texture. MagnaSweet® Product Portfolio The MagnaSweet® product portfolio is divided into four main categories: MM100 Series The Magnasweet® 100 Series has existed for over 30 years and is proven to improve taste and sweetness in a wide variety of product applications. It is an essential tool for masking or eliminating aftertastes, intensifying sweetness, extending sweetness, and enhancing other flavors. MagnaSweet® 100 Series products are available in both liquid and powder forms and have different formulations with non-MAG components to meet your specific goals. MM200 Series MagnaSweet® 200 Series is an extension of the traditional Monoammonium Glycyrrhizinate (MAG) products and has improved solubility at low pH, better initial sweetness, and greater sweetness intensity. MagnaSweet® 200 Series products are sold in both liquid and solid powder forms with products in the Magnasweet® 200 Series to meet your specific goals in a wide variety of product applications. MM300 Series MagnaSweet® 300 Series is a product based on Ammoniated Glycyrrhizin (AG), which is the basic ammonia salt form of Crude Glycyrrhizic Acid. Glycyrrhizic Acid is the unique ingredient found in licorice root. MagnaSweet® 300 Series has several key performance attributes: providing a slight licorice flavor, masking or eliminating aftertastes, enhancing and extending flavors, and modulating sweetness. The MagnaSweet® 300 Series is effective in applications that can accommodate the slight licorice flavor, such as savory products, tomato-based products, vanilla, coffee, and chocolate-flavored items. Compound Solutions Our compound solutions are a portfolio of versatile sweetness modulators, masking agents, and mouthfeel enhancers. Available in both liquid and powder forms with various solubilities, these products are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications and address specific regulatory compliance needs. Let’s Craft Your Next Creation! Mafco’s MagnaSweet® lines of products are extraordinary and versatile masking agents, sweetness intensifiers and extenders, and flavor enhancers. They are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications. Please let us know how we can help with your next incredible creation! Start with a Sample MagnaSweet® General Inquiries Request a Quote FAQ General Inquiries Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Quote Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Sample Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Speak with an Expert Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Copyright © 2023 Mafco Worldwide LLC. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy Notice Another Design by: LDR Design Agency Home MagnaSweet® Toggle child menu Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Our Locations FAQ Request a Sample Call Us ×


 
https://mafco.com/magnasweet/sweetness-flavor-modulation
Sweetness Flavor Modulation - Mafco Worldwide Skip to content Request a Sample Speak with an Expert Phone +1-856-964-8840 Location View Our Locations Home MagnaSweet® Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Phone +1-856-964-8840 Toggle Menu Sweetness Flavor Modulation Home \- MagnaSweet® for Food & Pharmaceutical \- Sweetness Flavor Modulation Improve And Extend The Sweetness Profiles Of Reduced Sugar And Sugar-Free Food And Beverage Applications MagnaSweet®’s naturally intense sweetness properties make it the perfect partner in sugar-free and calorie-free sweetener systems to intensify, prolong, and eliminate the off-notes and aftertastes from high-intensity sweeteners. MagnaSweet® is an ideal tool for formulators looking to reduce or eliminate aspartame from their formulations and replace it with other natural or artificial high-intensity sweeteners. MagnaSweet® works synergistically with stevia to amplify and round out the sweetness while reducing the bitter aftertaste of stevia. MagnaSweet® is also an ideal complement to replace aspartame with sucralose by balancing its strong upfront sweetness. MagnaSweet® is an essential tool when reformulating food and beverage products to reduce or eliminate aspartame. MagnaSweet® Is The Perfect Partner For Sugar-Free and Reduced Sugar Products The common flavor challenges associated with Sugar Reduction include: Flavor profiles of high-intensity sweeteners Bitterness and lingering aftertaste of natural high-intensity sweeteners including stevia and monk fruit Short duration of sweetness from high-intensity sweeteners Benefits of MagnaSweet® in reduced sugar and sugar-free products: Works synergistically with sweeteners including sugar, stevia, aspartame, sucralose, and acesulfame-potassium Rounds out temporal profiles while improving flavor and mouthfeel Highly versatile – effective and stable in multitudes of applications Masks high-intensity sweetener aftertastes, especially from stevia Cost-effective solutions and a low inclusion rate Application Capabilities using Sweetness Flavor Modulation MagnaSweet® SwE-063 Chaga Chai Tea: Benefits of SwE-061: Enhances and extends the sweetness in this 30% reduced sugar beverage Reduces off-taste from mushroom powder Improves chai flavor notes Colorful Candies mixed Sugar-Free Caffeine Gummy Benefits of MM110-2X Works synergistically with stevia to enhance and extend the sweetness of this sugar-free gummy Masks lingering bitterness of caffeine Enhances mixed berry flavor Let’s Craft Your Next Creation! Mafco’s MagnaSweet® lines of products are extraordinary and versatile masking agents, sweetness intensifiers and extenders, and flavor enhancers. They are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications. Please let us know how we can help with your next incredible creation! Start with a Sample MagnaSweet® General Inquiries Request a Quote FAQ General Inquiries Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Quote Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Sample Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Speak with an Expert Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Copyright © 2023 Mafco Worldwide LLC. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy Notice Another Design by: LDR Design Agency Home MagnaSweet® Toggle child menu Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Our Locations FAQ Request a Sample Call Us ×


 
https://mafco.com/magnasweet/bitter-flavor-modulation
Bitter Flavor Modulation - Mafco Worldwide Skip to content Request a Sample Speak with an Expert Phone +1-856-964-8840 Location View Our Locations Home MagnaSweet® Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Phone +1-856-964-8840 Toggle Menu Bitter Flavor Modulation Home \- MagnaSweet® for Food & Pharmaceutical \- Bitter Flavor Modulation Eliminate Strong Bitter Flavors And Lingering Aftertastes In Food And Beverages Applications MagnaSweet® bitter flavor modulation effectively blocks and masks bitterness in formulations with plant compounds, hydrolyzed proteins, amino acids (BCAAs), peptides, DHA, EPAs, and surfactants. Not only do our products mask unwanted flavors, but they also work to enhance the flavors you want present in your formulations. No chalky or grassy flavors here, just naturally good tastes that shine through in any application from food and drinks to pharmaceuticals and supplements. MagnaSweet® Blocks Bitterness and Extends the Sweetness in a Range of Products Common sources of bitterness in food and beverages: Phenols and polyphenols Flavonoids (green tea) Caffeine Hydrolyzed proteins, amino acids, peptides Nutraceutical functional ingredients MagnaSweet® bitter blocking benefits: Reduces upfront bitterness Eliminates lingering bitterness Enhances desired flavors Application Capabilities using Bitter Flavor Modulation BCAA Drink Mix Benefits of BB-022LE: Reduces bitterness from branched-chain amino acids Enhances mixed berry flavor Masks high-intensity sweetener off-tastes Bitter Flavor Modulation 4 Sparkling Orange Adaptogen Beverage with L-theanine and Ginseng Benefits of BB-001 + BB-020 Synergistically mask the bitterness of ginseng and l-theanine Enhance sweetness in this no-added sugar beverage Let’s Craft Your Next Creation! Mafco’s MagnaSweet® lines of products are extraordinary and versatile masking agents, sweetness intensifiers and extenders, and flavor enhancers. They are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications. Please let us know how we can help with your next incredible creation! Start with a Sample MagnaSweet® General Inquiries Request a Quote FAQ General Inquiries Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Quote Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Sample Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Speak with an Expert Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Copyright © 2023 Mafco Worldwide LLC. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy Notice Another Design by: LDR Design Agency Home MagnaSweet® Toggle child menu Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Our Locations FAQ Request a Sample Call Us ×


 
https://mafco.com/magnasweet/pharmaceutical-flavor-masking
Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking - Mafco Worldwide Skip to content Request a Sample Speak with an Expert Phone +1-856-964-8840 Location View Our Locations Home MagnaSweet® Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Phone +1-856-964-8840 Toggle Menu Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Home \- MagnaSweet® for Food & Pharmaceutical \- Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Make Even The Most Challenging Pharmaceutical Active and Nutraceutical Functional Ingredients Palatable and Consumer-friendly MagnaSweet® effectively reduces the bitterness from APIs (Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients) and nutriceutical Functional Ingredients with higher solubility in liquid products, which makes medicine more palatable to the consumer. By masking vitamins, minerals, and other nutritional supplement ingredients while extending sweetness, product developers can create products with much better flavor profiles and reduced lingering aftertaste. Magnasweet® Masks Aftertastes Of Pharmaceutical And Nutraceutical Functional Ingredients Taste challenges of pharmaceutical and nutraceutical products: Excessive bitterness from active pharmaceutical ingredients Excessive use of sweeteners for masking Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API) aftertastes Functional ingredients used in nutraceuticals with lingering aftertastes MagnaSweet® pharmaceutical API and Nutraceutical Functional Masking benefits: Reduces and masks overall bitterness from pharmaceutical APIs and nutraceutical functional ingredients The lingering masking effect matches the duration of API and nutraceutical functional ingredients aftertastes Highly soluble in liquid products MagnaSweet® powdered products are ideal for direct compression chewable tablets Liquid MagnaSweet products are ideal for syrups and gummies Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Aftertaste Masking Application Capabilities Our products are effective in taste masking aftertaste in pharmaceutical and nutriceuticals. Get competitive in the market with help from our natural*, plant-based products line are effective in all pharmaceutical applications. Mask unpleasant flavors and eliminate lingering aftertastes to help improve the consumer experience and improve the taste of your products. Sugar Free Vitamin Gummy Benefits of MM110-2X Works synergistically with stevia to enhance and extend the sweetness of this sugar-free gummy Masks off-notes and lingering bitter aftertastes of vitamin blend Enhances apple flavor Model Cough Syrup Benefits of PH-016 Reduces and masks the bitter taste of quinine Balances sweetness and masks lingering aftertaste Improved mouthfeel Let’s Craft Your Next Creation! Mafco’s MagnaSweet® lines of products are extraordinary and versatile masking agents, sweetness intensifiers and extenders, and flavor enhancers. They are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications. Please let us know how we can help with your next incredible creation! Start with a Sample MagnaSweet® General Inquiries Request a Quote FAQ General Inquiries Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Quote Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Sample Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Speak with an Expert Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Copyright © 2023 Mafco Worldwide LLC. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy Notice Another Design by: LDR Design Agency Home MagnaSweet® Toggle child menu Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Our Locations FAQ Request a Sample Call Us ×


 
https://mafco.com/magnasweet/protein-flavor-masking
Protein Flavor Masking - Mafco Worldwide Skip to content Request a Sample Speak with an Expert Phone +1-856-964-8840 Location View Our Locations Home MagnaSweet® Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Phone +1-856-964-8840 Toggle Menu Protein Flavor Masking Home \- MagnaSweet® for Food & Pharmaceutical \- Protein Flavor Masking Overcome Common Flavor Challenges Associated With Plant-Based Proteins Enhance natural flavors and round out the flavor profile in your plant protein-based products so consumers can enjoy clean tastes without any lingering, strong aftertaste or overbearing bitterness. Plant proteins can have unfortunate aftertastes described as earthy, grassy, bitter, or even bean-like. Now, you can eliminate those off-notes in all types of food and beverage applications with MagnaSweet® to mask protein aftertaste. Magnasweet® Masks Plant-Based Protein Aftertastes In All Types Of Food And Beverage Applications Proteins with Aftertaste Challenges: Pea Protein Soy Protein Whey and hydrolyzed proteins Minimally processed plant proteins including rice, grains, and beans Benefits of MagnaSweet® for Masking Protein Aftertastes: Reduces grassy, earthy aftertastes Reduces unpleasant aftertastes Improves mouthfeel and reduces chalkiness Application Capabilities using Protein Flavor Masking Chocolate Almond Pea Protein Bar Benefits of PM-024LE: Masks the earthy, grassy flavor from pea protein Enhances chocolate and almond flavor notes Reduces bitter aftertaste Plant-Based Chocolate Protein Shake Benefits of BB-022LE + BB-020 : Masks the earthy, grassy flavor from pea protein Improves mouthfeel and enhances chocolate flavor notes Reduces bitter aftertaste Let’s Craft Your Next Creation! Mafco’s MagnaSweet® lines of products are extraordinary and versatile masking agents, sweetness intensifiers and extenders, and flavor enhancers. They are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications. Please let us know how we can help with your next incredible creation! Start with a Sample MagnaSweet® General Inquiries Request a Quote FAQ General Inquiries Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Quote Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Sample Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Speak with an Expert Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Copyright © 2023 Mafco Worldwide LLC. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy Notice Another Design by: LDR Design Agency Home MagnaSweet® Toggle child menu Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Our Locations FAQ Request a Sample Call Us ×


 
https://mafco.com/magnasweet/low-sodium-foods-flavor-modulator
Salt Flavor Modulation - Mafco Worldwide Skip to content Request a Sample Speak with an Expert Phone +1-856-964-8840 Location View Our Locations Home MagnaSweet® Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Phone +1-856-964-8840 Toggle Menu Salt Flavor Modulation Home \- MagnaSweet® for Food & Pharmaceutical \- Salt Flavor Modulation Manage High Salt Content And Improve Flavors In Savory Food Applications Savory products are a very competitive market where consumers are looking for innovative products that deliver rich and full flavors while reducing sodium content. Utilizing MagnaSweet®’s functional capabilities, you can deliver innovative and appetizing products with less sodium. MagnaSweet® amplifies the taste of sodium chloride and masks the bitter aftertaste of non-sodium salts including potassium chloride. This effect enables formulators to reduce sodium salt by blending in potassium salt with MagnaSweet® to mask the characteristic potassium salt metallic aftertaste and enhance the desired savory flavors. Magnasweet® Products Are Your Answer To Reducing Overall Sodium By Amplifying Salty And Umami Flavors In A Range Of Products Common challenges to reducing salt: Lack of umami Reduced savory flavor Bitterness Metallic off-notes from potassium chloride MagnaSweet® salt enhancement benefits: Increases savory flavors and perception of salty taste Masks metallic and chemical notes from salt substitutes including off-tastes from potassium chloride Creates a more rounded flavor profile and reduced acidity Application Capabilities Using Salt Flavor Modulation Cheddar Cheese Seasoning For Chips Benefits of SE-014: Enhances the perception of salt in a 30% reduced salt chip seasoning Enhances cheese flavor notes in seasoning Let’s Craft Your Next Creation! Mafco’s MagnaSweet® lines of products are extraordinary and versatile masking agents, sweetness intensifiers and extenders, and flavor enhancers. They are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications. Please let us know how we can help with your next incredible creation! Start with a Sample MagnaSweet® General Inquiries Request a Quote FAQ General Inquiries Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Quote Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Sample Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Speak with an Expert Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Copyright © 2023 Mafco Worldwide LLC. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy Notice Another Design by: LDR Design Agency Home MagnaSweet® Toggle child menu Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Our Locations FAQ Request a Sample Call Us ×


 
https://mafco.com/magnasweet/magnamouthfeel
Mouthfeel Modulation - Mafco Worldwide Skip to content Request a Sample Speak with an Expert Phone +1-856-964-8840 Location View Our Locations Home MagnaSweet® Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Phone +1-856-964-8840 Toggle Menu Mouthfeel Modulation Home \- MagnaSweet® for Food & Pharmaceutical \- Mouthfeel Modulation Creates a Rich and Pleasant Full-Body Mouthfeel for a More Satisfying Taste Experience in Food and Beverages! MagnaSweet® is an effective building block to overcome thin mouthfeel and add a dynamic taste dimension in non-fat or sugar-reduced dairy, non-dairy, and plant-based food and beverages. It works hand-in-hand with flavors to enhance how products taste and feel in the mouth. Our mouthfeel modulation products are designed to optimize mouthfeel in your food or beverage products for a creamier, silkier, and smoother taste and texture without compromising on sweetness or flavor. MagnaSweet® Is Solving Formulation Issues for Smoother, Richer & Tastier Creations Taste challenges with reduced sugar and fat foods and beverages: Thin mouthfeel Lacking flavor and fullness Benefits of MagnaSweet® mouthfeel products: Full-bodied, balanced mouthfeel Rich, creamy texture Reduced astringency and grittiness Application Capabilities using Mouthfeel Modulation Low Sugar Mango Selzer Benefits of MMF-014 & SwE-063: MMF-014 provides a richer, syrupy mouthfeel this low-sugar, 50 calorie per serving seltzer SwE-063 enhances the overall sweetness for more rounded flavor Let’s Craft Your Next Creation! Mafco’s MagnaSweet® lines of products are extraordinary and versatile masking agents, sweetness intensifiers and extenders, and flavor enhancers. They are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications. Please let us know how we can help with your next incredible creation! Start with a Sample MagnaSweet® General Inquiries Request a Quote FAQ General Inquiries Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Quote Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Sample Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Speak with an Expert Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Copyright © 2023 Mafco Worldwide LLC. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy Notice Another Design by: LDR Design Agency Home MagnaSweet® Toggle child menu Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Our Locations FAQ Request a Sample Call Us ×


 
https://mafco.com/magnasweet/portfolio
MagnaSweet® Product Portfolio - Mafco Worldwide Skip to content Request a Sample Speak with an Expert Phone +1-856-964-8840 Location View Our Locations Home MagnaSweet® Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Phone +1-856-964-8840 Toggle Menu MagnaSweet® Product Portfolio Home \- MagnaSweet® for Food & Pharmaceutical \- MagnaSweet® Product Portfolio MagnaSweet® Has A History Of Exceptional Performance The MagnaSweet® Series is a line of products based on the traditional Monoammonium Glycyrrhizinate (MAG). MAG is the ammonia salt form of Glycyrrhizic Acid. Glycyrrhizic Acid is a unique ingredient found in licorice root. MAG is natural* and GRAS with no licorice flavor. *Depending on local regulations. MagnaSweet® 100 has four key performance attributes: Masking or eliminating aftertastes, intensifying sweetness, extending sweetness, and enhancing other flavors. These attributes are what make the MagnaSweet® 100 Series a versatile ingredient for a wide variety of applications for beverages, foods, pharmaceuticals, nutraceuticals, and oral care. The MagnaSweet® 100 Series has existed for over 50 years and has been proven to improve taste and sweetness in a wide variety of product applications. It is an essential tool for assisting product developers in overcoming formulation obstacles to satisfy consumers’ preferences. MagnaSweet® 100 Series Details: MagnaSweet® 100 Series products are in both liquid and powder forms and also have different formulations with non-MAG components to meet your specific goals. Powered Varieties of 100 Series MM100 – The Original Product and Industry Standard, in Powdered Format. MM100 Product Description Taste Profile: Intense delayed sweet profile Attributes: – Effective at Masking Aftertastes – Intensifies and Extends Sweetness – Enhances Flavor Applications: Beverages, Pharmaceuticals, Oral Care, Plant Protein Products, Sugar-Free Products, Nutraceuticals, and Reduced Sodium Products. Appearance: White to Off-White Crystalline Powder Technical Specifications Solubility: Soluble at recommended dosages in: Water, Alcohol Solutions, Propylene Glycol, Glycerine pH Range: 3.5 – 8.0 effective working range Dosage Range: Sweetness Modulation 0.002% to 0.007% Masking Aftertaste 0.002% to 0.007% Flavor Enhancement 0.002% to 0.004% General Information Regulatory Status: GRAS Approved, FEMA Approved, Kosher Certified, Halal Certified, non-GMO Shelf Life: 5 years from date of manufacture in the original sealed container Packaging: 25 Kg or 50 Pounds – Poly-lined Drum Standard, other package sizes are available upon request Storage Conditions: Recommend storage away from high temperature and high humidity conditions MM100F – Improved Solubility and a Faster Onset of Sweetness, in Powdered Format MM100F Product Description Taste Profile: Intense, delayed sweet profile Attributes: – Effective at Masking Aftertastes – Intensifies and Extends Sweetness – Enhances Flavor Applications: Beverages, Pharmaceuticals, Oral Care, Cosmetics, Plant Protein Products, Sugar-Free Products, Nutraceuticals, and Reduced Sodium Products. Appearance: White to Off-White Crystalline Powder Technical Specifications Solubility: Soluble at recommended dosages in: Water, Alcohol Solutions, Propylene Glycol, Glycerine pH Range: 3.5 – 8.0 effective working range Dosage Range: Sweetness Modulation 0.002% to 0.007% Masking Aftertaste 0.002% to 0.05% Flavor Enhancement 0.002% to 0.004% General Information Regulatory Status: GRAS Approved, FEMA Approved, Kosher Certified, Halal Certified, non-GMO Shelf Life: 5 years from the date of manufacture in the original sealed container Packaging: 25 Kg or 50 Pounds – Poly-lined Drum Standard, other package sizes are available upon request Storage Conditions: Recommend storage away from high temperature and high humidity conditions MM135 – Ease-of-Use for Bulk Manufacturing, Rounded Sweetness, in Powdered Format MM135 Product Description Taste Profile: Well-rounded sweet profile, good initial sweetness Attributes: – Improved initial sweetness – Good dispersion in Powdered and Liquid systems – Effective at Masking Aftertastes – Intensifies and Extends Sweetness – Enhances Flavors Applications: Pharmaceuticals, Chewable Tablets, Chewable Vitamins, Confections, Fruit fillings, Nutraceuticals. Appearance: White to Off-White Crystalline Powder Technical Specifications Solubility: Soluble at recommended dosages in: Water, Alcohol Solutions, Propylene Glycol, Glycerine pH Range: 3.5 – 8.0 effective working range Dosage Range: Sweetness Modulation 0.01% to 0.03% Masking Aftertaste 0.01% to 0.03% Flavor Enhancement 0.01% to 0.02% General Information Regulatory Status: GRAS Approved, FEMA Approved, Kosher Certified, Halal Certified, non-GMO Shelf Life: 2 years from the date of manufacture in an original sealed container Packaging: 25 Kg or 50 Pounds – Poly-lined Drum Standard, other package sizes are available upon request Storage Conditions: Recommend storage away from high temperature and high humidity conditions Liquid Varieties of 100 Series MM110 – The Liquid Version of MM100 MM110 Product Description Taste Profile: Sweet profile with intense delayed sweetness Attributes: – Good Solubility – Effective at Masking Aftertastes – Intensifies and Extends Sweetness – Enhances Flavor Applications: Pharmaceuticals, Protein Drinks, Beverages, Juices, Liquid Soy Products, Sugar-Free Products, Oral Care Products, Nutraceuticals. Appearance: Pale yellow viscous liquid Technical Specifications Solubility: Soluble at recommended dosages in: Water, Alcohol Solutions, Propylene Glycol, Glycerine pH Range: 3.5 – 8.0 effective working range Dosage Range: Sweetness Modulation 0.01% to 0.04% Masking Aftertaste 0.01% to 0.04% Flavor Enhancement 0.02% to 0.02% General Information Regulatory Status: GRAS Approved, FEMA Approved, Halal Certified, Kosher Certified, non-GMO Shelf Life: 2 years from the date of manufacture in an original sealed container Packaging: 25 Kg or 50 Pounds – Poly-lined Drum Standard, other package sizes are available upon request Storage Conditions: Recommend storage away from high temperature and high humidity conditions MM110 – 2X Highly Concentrated Liquid Version of MM100 MM110 2X Product Description Taste Profile: Sweet profile with intense delayed sweetness Attributes: – Good Solubility – Effective at Masking Aftertastes – Intensifies and Extends Sweetness – Enhances Flavor Applications: Pharmaceuticals, Protein Drinks, Beverages, Juices, Liquid Soy Products, Sugar-Free Products, Oral Care Products, Nutraceuticals. Appearance: Pale yellow viscous liquid Technical Specifications Solubility: Soluble at recommended dosages in: Water, Alcohol Solutions, Propylene Glycol, Glycerine pH Range: 3.5 – 8.0 effective working range Dosage Range: Sweetness Modulation 0.005% to 0.025% Masking Aftertaste 0.005% to 0.025% Flavor Enhancement 0.01% to 0.02% General Information Regulatory Status: GRAS Approved, FEMA Approved, Halal Certified, Kosher Certified, non-GMO Shelf Life: 2 years from the date of manufacture in an original sealed container Packaging: 25 Kg or 50 Pounds – Plastic Jerri cans, and other package sizes are available upon request Storage Conditions: Recommend storage away from high temperature and high humidity conditions MM110F – The Liquid Version of MM100F MM110F Product Description Taste Profile: Sweet profile with intense delayed sweetness Attributes: – Good Solubility – Effective at Masking Aftertastes – Intensifies and Extends Sweetness – Enhances Flavor Applications: Pharmaceuticals, Protein Drinks, Beverages, Juices, Liquid Soy Products, Sugar-Free Products, Oral Care Products, Nutraceuticals. Appearance: Pale yellow viscous liquid Technical Specifications Solubility: Soluble at recommended dosages in: Water, Alcohol Solutions, Propylene Glycol, Glycerine pH Range: 3.5 – 8.0 effective working range Dosage Range: Sweetness Modulation 0.01% to 0.04% Masking Aftertaste 0.01% to 0.04% Flavor Enhancement 0.02% to 0.03% General Information Regulatory Status: GRAS Approved, FEMA Approved, Halal Certified, Kosher Certified, non-GMO Shelf Life: 2 years from the date of manufacture in an original sealed container Packaging: 25 Kg or 50 Pounds – Poly-lined Drum Standard, other package sizes are available upon request Storage Conditions: Recommend storage away from high temperature and high humidity conditions MM136 – Liquid Version of MM135 MM136 Product Description Taste Profile: Sweet profile with strong delayed sweetness Attributes: – Good Solubility – Effective at Masking Aftertastes – Intensifies and Extends Sweetness – Enhances Flavor Applications: Tobacco Products, Protein Drinks, Beverages – Juices, Liquid Soy Products, Nutraceuticals. Appearance: Dark brown viscous liquid Technical Specifications Solubility: Soluble at recommended dosages in: Water, Alcohol Solutions, Propylene Glycol, Glycerine pH Range: 3.5 – 8.0 effective working range Dosage Range: Sweetness Modulation 0.10% to 0.025% Masking Aftertaste 0.10% to 0.25% Flavor Enhancement 0.10% to 0.1% General Information Regulatory Status: GRAS Approved, FEMA Approved, Halal Certified, Kosher Certified, non-GMO Shelf Life: 2 years from the date of manufacture in an original sealed container Packaging: 25 Kg or 50 Pounds – Plastic Jerri cans, and other package sizes are available upon request Storage Conditions: Recommend storage away from high temperature and high humidity conditions Other Magnasweet 100 series products are available. Please consult with your Mafco sales representative for additional options. The MagnaSweet® 200 Series is a line of products based on an extension of traditional Monoammonium Glycyrrhizinate (MAG). Monoammonium Glycyrrhizinate is the ammonia salt form of Glycyrrhizic Acid. Glycyrrhizic Acid is the a unique ingredient found in licorice root. MagnaSweet® 200 Series is natural* and GRAS with no licorice flavor. In addition to having the four key performance attributes of masking or eliminating aftertastes, intensifying sweetness, extending sweetness, and enhancing other flavors, Magnasweet® 200 Series has improved solubility at low pH, better initial sweetness, and greater sweetness intensity. MagnaSweet® 200 Series products are sold in both liquid and solid powder forms with several specific products in the Magnasweet® 200 Series to meet your specific goals in a wide variety of product applications. *Depending on local regulations. MagnaSweet® 200 Series Details: MM200F – More Upfront Sweetness, Greater Solubility at Low and Neutral pH, More Intense Sweetness MM200F Product Description Taste Profile: Intense sweet profile, upfront sweetness Attributes: – Effective at Masking Aftertastes – Intensifies and Extends Sweetness – Enhances Flavor – Improved Solubility Applications: Stevia Sweetened Products, Chewing Gum, Cosmetics, Dairy, Yogurt, Sugar-Free Products, Soy Products (Liquid and Powdered forms), Nutraceuticals, Low pH Beverages, Juices, Sugar-Free Products Appearance: White to Off-White Crystalline Powder Technical Specifications Solubility: Soluble at recommended dosages in: Water, Alcohol Solutions, Propylene Glycol, Glycerine pH Range: 3.0 – 8.0 effective working range Dosage Range: Sweetness Modulation 0.002% to 0.007% Masking Aftertaste 0.002% to 0.007% Flavor Enhancement 0.002% to 0.004% General Information Regulatory Status: GRAS Approved, FEMA Approved, Kosher Certified, Halal Certifiable, non-GMO Shelf Life: 3 years from the date of manufacture in an original sealed container Packaging: 25 Kg or 50 Pounds – Poly-lined Drum Standard, other package sizes are available upon request Storage Conditions : Recommend storage away from high temperature and high humidity conditions MM210F – Liquid Version of MM200F MM210F Product Description Taste Profile: Intense sweet profile Attributes : – Good Solubility – Effective at Masking Aftertastes – Intensifies and Extends Sweetness – Enhances Flavor Applications: Low pH beverages, Protein Drinks, Beverages – Juices, Liquid Plant Protein Products, Nutraceuticals, Stevia Sweetened Products, Sugar-Free Products Appearance: Pale yellow viscous liquid Technical Specifications Solubility : Soluble at recommended dosages in: Water, Alcohol Solutions, Propylene Glycol, Glycerine pH Range: 3.0 – 8.0 effective working range Dosage Range: Sweetness Modulation 0.01% to 0.045% Masking Aftertaste 0.01% to 0.045% Flavor Enhancement 0.02% to 0.025% General Information Regulatory Status: GRAS Approved, FEMA Approved, Kosher Certified, Halal Certifiable, non-GMO Shelf Life : 2 years from the date of manufacture in an original sealed container Packaging: 25 Kg or 50 Pounds – Plastic Jerri cans, and other package sizes are available upon request Storage Conditions : Recommend storage away from high temperature and high humidity conditions The MagnaSweet® 300 Series is a Product Based on Ammoniated Glycyrrhizin (AG), Which is the Basic Ammonia Salt Form of Crude Glycyrrhizic Acid. Glycyrrhizic Acid is a unique ingredient found in licorice root. AG is natural* and GRAS with a slight licorice flavor. MagnaSweet® 300 Series has several key performance attributes: providing a slight licorice flavor, masking or eliminating aftertastes, enhancing and extending flavors, and modulating sweetness. The MagnaSweet® 300 Series is effective in applications that can accommodate the slight licorice flavor, such as savory products, tomato-based products, vanilla, and chocolate-flavored items. The MagnaSweet® 300 Series is used in a wide variety of applications for foods, beverages, snacks, and pharmaceuticals. *Depending on local regulations. MagnaSweet® 300 Series Details: Powered Varieties of 300 Series MM300 Flavor Enhancement, Particularly for Savory and Chocolate Applications MM300 Product Description Taste Profile: Licorice flavor with a delayed sweet profile Attributes: – Effective at Masking Aftertastes – Intensifies and Extends Sweetness – Enhances Flavor Applications: Strong tonality food and beverage applications including chocolate, gravies, marinades, tomato-based products, root beer, tea, curries, and soy sauces Appearance: Brown to dark brown powder Technical Specifications Solubility: Soluble at recommended dosages in Water, Alcohol Solutions, Propylene Glycol, Glycerine pH Range: 3.0 – 8.0 effective working range Dosage Range: Sweetness Modulation 0.002% to 0.05% Masking Aftertaste 0.002% to 0.05% Flavor Enhancement 0.002% to 0.05% General Information Regulatory Status: GRAS Approved, FEMA Approved, Kosher Certified, Halal Certifiable, non-GMO Shelf Life: 3 years from the date of manufacture in an original sealed container Packaging : 25 Kg or 50 Pounds – Poly-lined Drum Standard, other package sizes are available upon request Storage Conditions : Recommend storage away from high temperature and high humidity conditions Compounded Products: The compounded MagnaSweet product line incorporates the legacy of Magnasweet to create unique, highly effective products, meeting more functional and regulatory requirements. Powdered Products in the Compounded Magnasweet Series PM-003 – Masking Aftertastes and Bitterness in Protein Products and Plant Extracts PM-003 Product Description Taste Profile : Sweet, mild herbal flavor Attributes: – Masks aftertastes from proteins – Adds slight sweetness – Masks bitterness from plant extracts Applications: protein bars, particularly plant proteins, protein beverages, CBD extracts and products, plant protein-based meat analogues. Appearance: white powder Technical Specifications Solubility: Soluble at recommended dosages in Water, Alcohol Solutions, Propylene Glycol, Glycerine pH Range: 3.0 – 8.0 effective working range Dosage Range: Sweetness Modulation 0.002% to 0.05% Masking Aftertaste 0.002% to 0.05% Flavor Enhancement 0.002% to 0.05% General Information Regulatory Status: GRAS Approved, FEMA Approved, Kosher Certified, Halal Certifiable, non-GMO Shelf Life: 3 years from the date of manufacture in an original sealed container Packaging : 25 Kg or 50 Pounds – Poly-lined Drum Standard, other package sizes are available upon request Storage Conditions : Recommend storage away from high temperature and high humidity conditions PM-004 – Masking Aftertastes and Bitterness in Protein Products and Plant Extracts PM-004 Product Description Taste Profile : Sweet, mild herbal flavor Attributes: – Masks aftertastes from proteins – Adds slight sweetness – Masks bitterness from plant extracts Applications: protein bars, particularly plant proteins, protein beverages, CBD extracts and products, plant protein-based meat analogues. Appearance: white powder Technical Specifications Solubility: Soluble at recommended dosages in Water, Alcohol Solutions, Propylene Glycol, Glycerine pH Range: 3.0 – 8.0 effective working range Dosage Range: Masking aftertastes and protein bitterness 0.01 -0.02% Masking CBD product bitterness: 0.01 – 0.02% General Information Regulatory Status: GRAS Approved, FEMA Approved, Kosher Certified, Halal Certifiable, non-GMO Shelf Life: 3 years from the date of manufacture in an original sealed container Packaging: 25 Kg or 50 Pounds – Poly-lined Drum Standard, other package sizes are available upon request Storage Conditions: Recommend storage away from high temperature and high humidity conditions PM-016 – Masking Aftertastes in Protein Products, particularly Plant Proteins PM016 Product Description Taste Profile : Sweet, mild herbal flavor Attributes: – Masks aftertastes from plant proteins – Adds slight sweetness – Masks bitterness from plant proteins and protein hydrolysates Applications : protein bars, particularly plant proteins, protein beverages, plant protein-based meat analogues Appearance: white powder Technical Specifications Solubility: soluble in water, glycerin, propylene glycol pH Range: 3.0 – 8.0 Dosage Range: Masking aftertastes and protein bitterness 0.01 -0.02% Masking plant protein bitterness: 0.01 – 0.02% General Information Regulatory Status: GRAS Approved, FEMA Approved, Kosher Certified, Halal Certifiable, non-GMO Shelf Life: 3 years from the date of manufacture in an original sealed container Packaging: 25 Kg or 50 Pounds – Poly-lined Drum Standard, other package sizes are available upon request Storage Conditions: Recommend storage away from high temperature and high humidity conditions PM-024LE – Protein masking, Allowed in All EU Food Categories PM-024LE Product Description Taste Profile : Sweet, slight licorice flavor Attributes: – Masks aftertastes from plant proteins – Masks bitterness from plant proteins and protein hydrolysates Applications : protein bars, particularly plant proteins, protein beverages, plant protein-based meat analogues Appearance: Variegated light brown powder Technical Specifications Solubility : soluble in water, glycerin, propylene glycol pH Range: 3.0 – 8.0 Dosage Range: Masking aftertastes and protein bitterness 0.01 -0.05% Masking plant protein bitterness: 0.01 – 0.03% General Information Regulatory Status: GRAS Approved, FEMA Approved, Kosher Certified, Halal Certifiable, non-GMO Shelf Life: 3 years from the date of manufacture in an original sealed container Packaging: 25 Kg or 50 Pounds – Poly-lined Drum Standard, other package sizes are available upon request Storage Conditions: Recommend storage away from high temperature and high humidity conditions PH-016 – Blocking Bitterness of Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients PH-016 Product Description Taste Profile : Sweet, mild herbal flavor Attributes: – Masks bitterness in pharmaceutical OTC applications such as suspensions and chewable tablets – Adds slight sweetness Applications : protein bars, particularly plant proteins, protein beverages, plant protein-based meat analogues Appearance: white to off-white powder Technical Specifications Solubility: soluble in water, glycerin, propylene glycol pH Range: 3.0 – 8.0 Dosage Range: Blocking active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) bitterness 0.01 -0.02% General Information Regulatory Status: GRAS Approved, FEMA Approved, Kosher Certified, Halal Certifiable, non-GMO Shelf Life: 3 years from the date of manufacture in an original sealed container Packaging: 25 Kg or 50 Pounds – Poly-lined Drum Standard, other package sizes are available upon request Storage Conditions: Recommend storage away from high temperature and high humidity conditions BB-001 – Blocking Bitterness in Protein Products, Supplements and Nutraceuticals BB001 Product Description Taste Profile : Sweet, mild herbal flavor Attributes: – Masks bitterness – Adds slight sweetness Applications : amino acid supplements, pre- and post- workout products, protein bars, hydrolyzed proteins Appearance: white powder Technical Specifications Solubility: soluble in water, glycerin, propylene glycol pH Range: 3.0 – 8.0 Dosage Range: Masking aftertastes and protein bitterness 0.01 -0.016% Masking plant protein bitterness: 0.01 – 0.016% General Information Regulatory Status: GRAS Approved, FEMA Approved, Kosher Certified, Halal Certifiable, non-GMO Shelf Life: 3 years from the date of manufacture in an original sealed container Packaging: 25 Kg or 50 Pounds – Poly-lined Drum Standard, other package sizes are available upon request Storage Conditions: Recommend storage away from high temperature and high humidity conditions BB-002 – Blocking Bitterness in Supplements and Nutraceuticals BB002 Product Description Taste Profile : Sweet, mild herbal flavor Attributes: – Masks bitterness – Adds slight sweetness Applications: caffeine and energy products, amino acid supplements, pre- and post- workout products, protein bars, hydrolyzed proteins Appearance: white powder Technical Specifications Solubility: soluble in water, glycerin, propylene glycol pH Range: 3.0 – 8.0 Dosage Range: Masking aftertastes and protein bitterness 0.01 -0.016% Masking plant protein bitterness: 0.01 – 0.016% General Information Regulatory Status: GRAS Approved, FEMA Approved, Kosher Certified, Halal Certifiable, non-GMO Shelf Life: 3 years from the date of manufacture in an original sealed container Packaging: 25 Kg or 50 Pounds – Poly-lined Drum Standard, other package sizes are available upon request Storage Conditions: Recommend storage away from high temperature and high humidity conditions BB-020 – Higher Efficiency Bitter Blocking BB020 Product Description Taste Profile : Sweet, mild herbal flavor Attributes: – Masks bitterness – Litter or no sweetness contribution Applications : amino acid supplements, caffeine and energy products, pre- and post- workout products, protein bars, hydrolyzed proteins Appearance: white powder Technical Specifications Solubility: soluble in water, glycerin, propylene glycol pH Range: 3.0 – 8.0 Dosage Range: Blocking bitterness 0.02 -0.1% Masking plant protein bitterness: 0.01 – 0.02% General Information Regulatory Status: GRAS Approved, FEMA Approved, Kosher Certified, Halal Certifiable, non-GMO Shelf Life: 3 years from the date of manufacture in an original sealed container Packaging: 25 Kg or 50 Pounds – Poly-lined Drum Standard, other package sizes are available upon request Storage Conditions: Recommend storage away from high temperature and high humidity conditions BB-022LE – Effective Clocking of Bitterness, Allowed in All EU Food Categories BB022LE Product Description Taste Profile : light licorice flavor, slightly sweet Attributes: – Masks bitterness – Slight sweetness contribution – Allowed in all EU foof categories, including supplements Applications : amino acid supplements, caffeine and energy products, pre- and post- workout products, protein bars, hydrolyzed proteins Appearance: Variegated light brown powder Technical Specifications Solubility: soluble in water, glycerin, propylene glycol pH Range: 3.0 – 8.0 Dosage Range: Blocking bitterness 0.02 -0.1% Masking plant protein bitterness: 0.01 – 0.05% General Information Regulatory Status: GRAS Approved, FEMA Approved, Kosher Certified, Halal Certifiable, non-GMO Shelf Life: 3 years from the date of manufacture in an original sealed container Packaging: 25 Kg or 50 Pounds – Poly-lined Drum Standard, other package sizes are available upon request Storage Conditions: Recommend storage away from high temperature and high humidity conditions BBN- Bitter Blocker: Ease of Use Format BBN Product Description Taste Profile : Sweet, slight licorice flavor Attributes: – Masks bitterness – Ease-of-use: used in larger quantities for measuring ease. Applications : amino acid supplements, caffeine and energy products, pre- and post- workout products, protein bars, hydrolyzed proteins Appearance: white to off-white powder Technical Specifications Solubility: soluble in water, glycerin, propylene glycol pH Range: 3.0 – 8.0 Dosage Range: Blocking bitterness 0.05 -0.1% Masking plant protein bitterness: 0.02 – 0.12% General Information Regulatory Status: GRAS Approved, FEMA Approved, Kosher Certified, Halal Certifiable, non-GMO Shelf Life: 3 years from the date of manufacture in an original sealed container Packaging: 25 Kg or 50 Pounds – Poly-lined Drum Standard, other package sizes are available upon request Storage Conditions: Recommend storage away from high temperature and high humidity conditions SwE-061 – Sweetness Enhancer: EU Natural for Beverages, Confections, and Dairy. SwE-061 Product Description Taste Profile : Sweet, slight citrus flavor Attributes: – Outstanding temporal sweetness profile – Upfront sweetness, reduced linger – EU natural in many food categories, including beverages, confections, dairy, and others Applications : Beverages, alcoholic beverages, confections for sugar reduction Appearance: white to off-white powder Technical Specifications Solubility: soluble in water, glycerin, propylene glycol pH Range: 3.0 – 8.0 Dosage Range: Sugar reduction 0.005 -0.007% Masking bitterness: 0.001 – 0.005% Flavor enhancement: 0.002 – 0.005% General Information Regulatory Status: GRAS Approved, FEMA Approved, Kosher Certified, Halal Certifiable, non-GMO Shelf Life: 3 years from the date of manufacture in an original sealed container Packaging: 25 Kg or 50 Pounds – Poly-lined Drum Standard, other package sizes are available upon request Storage Conditions: Recommend storage away from high temperature and high humidity conditions SwE-084 – Sweetness Enhancer: EU Natural for Beverages, Confections, and Dairy. SwE-084 Product Description Taste Profile : Sweet, slight citrus flavor Attributes: – Rounded temporal sweetness profile – Upfront sweetness, reduced linger – EU natural in many food categories, including beverages, confections, dairy, chewing gum and others Applications: beverages, alcoholic beverages, confections, chewing gum, dairy products for sugar reduction Appearance: white to off-white powder Technical Specifications Solubility: soluble in water, glycerin, propylene glycol pH Range: 3.0 – 8.0 Dosage Range: Sugar reduction 0.02 -0.045% Masking bitterness: 0.01 – 0.02% Flavor enhancement: 0.01 – 0.03% General Information Regulatory Status: GRAS Approved, FEMA Approved, Kosher Certified, Halal Certifiable, non-GMO Shelf Life: 3 years from the date of manufacture in an original sealed container Packaging: 25 Kg or 50 Pounds – Poly-lined Drum Standard, other package sizes are available upon request Storage Conditions: Recommend storage away from high temperature and high humidity conditions SwE-089 – Sweetness Enhancer: Rounded Sweetness, Cost-effective SwE-089 Product Description Taste Profile : Sweet, slight citrus flavor Attributes: – Rounded temporal sweetness profile – Upfront sweetness, reduced linger Applications: beverages, alcoholic beverages, confections, chewing gum, dairy products for sugar reduction Appearance: white to off-white powder Technical Specifications Solubility: soluble in water, glycerin, propylene glycol pH Range: 3.0 – 8.0 Dosage Range: Sugar reduction 0.007 -0.014% Masking bitterness: 0.007 – 0.014% Flavor enhancement: 0.005 – 0.01% General Information Regulatory Status: GRAS Approved, FEMA Approved, Kosher Certified, Halal Certifiable, non-GMO Shelf Life: 3 years from the date of manufacture in an original sealed container Packaging: 25 Kg or 50 Pounds – Poly-lined Drum Standard, other package sizes are available upon request Storage Conditions: Recommend storage away from high temperature and high humidity conditions SE-014 – Salt Enhancer: Salt and Savory Enhancement SE-014 Product Description Taste Profile : Sweet, slight licorice Attributes: – enhancement of salt flavor – enhances savory flavors – provides umami characteristics Applications: sauces, including ketchup, soy, fish, tomato-based, cheese seasonings, BBQ seasonings Appearance: brown powder Technical Specifications Solubility: soluble in water, glycerin, propylene glycol pH Range: 3.0 – 8.0 Dosage Range: Salt reduction 0.03 -0.05% Flavor enhancement: 0.03 – 0.05% General Information Regulatory Status: GRAS Approved, FEMA Approved, Kosher Certified, Halal Certifiable, non-GMO Shelf Life: 3 years from the date of manufacture in an original sealed container Packaging: 25 Kg or 50 Pounds – Poly-lined Drum Standard, other package sizes are available upon request Storage Conditions: Recommend storage away from high temperature and high humidity conditions Liquid Products in the Compounded Magnasweet Series SwE-063 – Sweetness Enhancer: Liquid Version of SwE-061 EU Natural for Beverages SwE-063 Product Description Taste Profile : Sweet, slight citrus flavor Attributes: – Outstanding temporal sweetness profile – Upfront sweetness, reduced linger – EU natural in many food categories, including beverages, confections, dairy, and others Applications : Beverages, alcoholic beverages, confections for sugar reduction Appearance: Pale yellow to amber viscous liquid Technical Specifications Solubility: soluble in water, glycerin, propylene glycol pH Range: 3.0 – 8.0 Dosage Range: Sugar reduction 0.03 -0.045% Masking bitterness: 0.01 – 0.02% Flavor enhancement: 0.02 – 0.045% General Information Regulatory Status: GRAS Approved, FEMA Approved, Kosher Certified, Halal Certifiable, non-GMO Shelf Life: 2 years from the date of manufacture in an original sealed container Packaging: 25 Kg or 50 Pounds – Poly-lined Drum Standard, other package sizes are available upon request Storage Conditions: Recommend storage away from high temperature and high humidity conditions PM-030OS – Protein Masker: Oil Soluble Masking Agent for Off-Flavors PM-030 OS Product Description Taste Profile : Oily, slightly bitter Attributes: – Excellent solubility in oil based systems – Effective at Masking Aftertastes Applications: oil based supplements, such as DHA oils. Appearance: Viscous clear liquid Technical Specifications Solubility: soluble in water, glycerin, propylene glycol pH Range: 3.0 – 8.0 Dosage Range: Masking off-flavors 0.05 – 0.1% General Information Regulatory Status: GRAS Approved, FEMA Approved, Kosher Certified, Halal Certifiable, non-GMO Shelf Life: 2 years from the date of manufacture in an original sealed container Packaging: 25 Kg or 50 Pounds – Poly-lined Drum Standard, other package sizes are available upon request Storage Conditions: Recommend storage away from high temperature and high humidity conditions MMF-014 – Mouthfeel Enhancement: Low/No Sugar Products, Low/No Fat Products MMF-014 Product Description Taste Profile : Oily, Syrupy Attributes: – Provides mouthfeel sensation without added sweetness or flavor – Wide allowable application range Applications: reduced or no sugar beverages, low fat or no-fat dairy products, liquid plant protein beverages Appearance: Viscous clear and colorless liquid Technical Specifications Solubility: soluble in water, glycerin, propylene glycol pH Range: 3.0 – 8.0 Dosage Range: Providing mouthfeel in beverages 0.02 – 0.05% Mouthfeel in dairy products 0.05 – 0.1% General Information Regulatory Status: GRAS Approved, FEMA Approved, Kosher Certified, Halal Certifiable, non-GMO Shelf Life: 2 years from the date of manufacture in an original sealed container Packaging: 25 Kg or 50 Pounds – Poly-lined Drum Standard, other package sizes are available upon request Storage Conditions: Recommend storage away from high temperature and high humidity conditions CM1L – Liquid Version of CM1: CBD Product Masking CM1L – CBD Masker Product Description Taste Profile : Sweet flavor Attributes: – Liquid format incorporates more easily into gummies, bars, beverages – Masks CBD bitterness – Masks off-flavors of CBD extracts Applications: CBD beverages, confections, bars Appearance: Pale yellow to amber viscous liquid Technical Specifications Solubility: soluble in water, glycerin, propylene glycol pH Range: 3.0 – 8.0 Dosage Range: Masking bitterness 0.03 -0.045% Masking off-flavors: 0.01 – 0.02% General Information Regulatory Status: GRAS Approved, FEMA Approved, Kosher Certified, Halal Certifiable, non-GMO Shelf Life: 2 years from the date of manufacture in an original sealed container Packaging: 25 Kg or 50 Pounds – Poly-lined Drum Standard, other package sizes are available upon request Storage Conditions: Recommend storage away from high temperature and high humidity conditions Let’s Craft Your Next Creation! Mafco’s MagnaSweet® lines of products are extraordinary and versatile masking agents, sweetness intensifiers and extenders, and flavor enhancers. They are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications. Please let us know how we can help with your next incredible creation! Start with a Sample MagnaSweet® General Inquiries Request a Quote FAQ General Inquiries Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Quote Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Sample Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Speak with an Expert Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Copyright © 2023 Mafco Worldwide LLC. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy Notice Another Design by: LDR Design Agency Home MagnaSweet® Toggle child menu Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Our Locations FAQ Request a Sample Call Us


 
https://mafco.com/pure-derivatives
Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza[br]For Personal Care Products - Mafco Worldwide Skip to content Request a Sample Speak with an Expert Phone +1-856-964-8840 Location View Our Locations Home MagnaSweet® Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Phone +1-856-964-8840 Toggle Menu Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza For Personal Care Products Home \- Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza[br]For Personal Care Products Mafco’s Pure Licorice Derivatives Used in Cosmetic And Personal Care Consumer Products Mafco’s Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza are used extensively in hundreds of global brand-name consumer cosmetics and personal care products. Mafco’s Pure Derivatives are based on unique compounds found only in licorice roots from the Glycyrrhiza species plants native to the Mediterranean, Central Asia, and the Far East. The licorice root has been used for homeopathic medicinal purposes for thousands of years in the Far East and has extensive topical uses in skin care. The primary unique compound extracted from these roots is glycyrrhizic acid. Glycyrrhizic acid, isolated in various salt forms, and other constituents including flavonoids and chalcones which are also unique to the licorice root, has been widely used in cosmetic and personal care product formulations for over 50 years for their preferential attributes including antioxidant, stabilizing, soothing, calming and skin brightening benefits. Pure Derivatives Functional Checklist: Pure Licorice Derivative products for cosmetic and personal care use can be classified into three distinct functional groups: Neuro Friendly Sensitive skin products for skin soothing, calming, and neuro-friendly activity. Pure Licorice Derivatives are beneficial for general skin conditions including redness and irritation. Hydrating and Stabilizing Skin rejuvenation and repair products with anti-oxidative, hydrating, and stabilizing properties to support the skin barrier and microbiome. Pure licorice derivatives contain flavonoids rich in antioxidant components that decrease reactive oxygen in the skin barrier. Brighter Looking Skin Skin brightening products to combat skin discoloration, improve uneven skin tone, and for smoother and brighter-looking skin. Pure Licorice Derivatives contain liquiritin and glabradine. which are compounds that help combat discoloration and uneven skin tone. Make Cosmetics & Personal Care Items More Enticing The efficiency of pure licorice derivatives in cosmetic and personal care products is evident, based upon ingredient disclosures for lip products such as balms and color sticks; for skin creams; and for facial and body moisturizing, cleansing, and exfoliation. Hydrating and Stabilizing Cream cropped view of sportsman holding jar and measuring spoon with protein powder PERSONAL CARE In personal care products, these products are used as excipients to mask unpleasant flavors, improve mouthfeel, and reduce chalkiness. FACE & BODY In moisturizers, lotions, and other face or body products, MagnaBeauty™ improves products by adding soothing and hydration properties. Hydrating and Stabilizing Cream cropped view of sportsman holding jar and measuring spoon with protein powder PERSONAL CARE In personal care products, these products are used as excipients to mask unpleasant flavors, improve mouthfeel, and reduce chalkiness. FACE & BODY In moisturizers, lotions, and other face or body products, MagnaBeauty™ improves products by adding soothing and hydration properties. Hydrating and Stabilizing Cream cropped view of sportsman holding jar and measuring spoon with protein powder PERSONAL CARE In personal care products, these products are used as excipients to mask unpleasant flavors, improve mouthfeel, and reduce chalkiness. FACE & BODY In moisturizers, lotions, and other face or body products, MagnaBeauty™ improves products by adding soothing and hydration properties. Pure Licorice Derivative® Primary Consumer Product Applications: Pure Licorice Derivatives are used for their functional benefits in these personal care products: Baby products – shampoos, lotions, wipes and powders Eye care products – liners, shadows, lotions, makeup removers, mascaras, eyelash and eyebrow products Hair preparations – conditioners, rinses and shampoos Makeup preparations – blushers and rouges, powders, foundations and body paints Lip care products – lipsticks, lip glosses, lip balms, and bases Nail preparations – Nail creams and lotions Personal cleanliness – bath soaps, body washes, and deodorants Shaving preparations – aftershave lotions, pre-shave lotions, shaving creams and soaps Skin care – moisturizing and cleansing preparations, skin, body and hand creams, lotions, exfoliants, serums, essences, and masks Sun and after-sun preparations – Suntan gels, creams, screens, and liquids Ex-Vivo Studies Mafco-EVD has a secure website with Ex-Vivo studies on the effect of licorice products on: Soothing of the skin Oily Skin Skin microbiota Aging Skin pigmentation and depigmentation Neuro activity Antioxidant activity If you are a professional working in the areas of product research development, you can request to view these studies by clicking this link . Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza Technical Information Click each accordion item to read the production description, physical & chemical properties, and typical analytical values for the Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza Series. Monoammonium Glycyrrhizinate (Ammonium Glycyrrhizate) Product Description CAS NO.: 53956-04-0 Formula: C42H62O16·NH3 Mol. Mass: 839.97 g/mol Synonyms: Monoammonium Glycyrrhizinate; Ammoniated Glycyrrhizinate; Glycyrrhizic Acid Monoammominum Salt; Ammoniated Glycyrrhizate HTC Code: 2938.90 Physical & Chemical Properties Physical state: White to off-white powder Solubility: Soluble in water and hydro-alcohol solutions at recommended dosage levels; soluble in glycerine and propylene glycol Typical Analytical Values Glycyrrhizic Acid content: 98.0% Loss on Drying: 3.0% Ash content: 0.1% pH: 4.2 Personal Care Applications Applications: Personal Care Products, Cosmetics, and Oral Health Products. The USA Food and Drug Administration (FDA) includes licorice and licorice derivatives on its list of substances considered Generally Recognized as Safe (GRAS). U.S. Natural Standard “Positive List” of Ingredients as recommended by the Natural Products Steering Committee, and approved by the Association’s Board. Dipotassium Glycyrrhizinate (Dipotassium Glycryrrhizate) Product Description CAS NO.: 68797-35-3 Formula: C42H60K2O16 Mol. Mass : 899.12 g/mol Synonyms: Glycyrrhizin Dipotassium Salt; Glycyrrhizinic Acid Dipotassium Salt; Glycyrrhizic Acid Dipotassium Salt; Dipotassium Glycyrrhizinate; Dipotassium Glycyrrhizate HTC Code : 2938.90 Physical & Chemical Properties Physical state: White to slightly yellow powder Solubility: Soluble in water; slightly soluble in ethanol Typical Analytical Values Glycyrrhizic Acid content: 98.0% Loss on Drying : 4.0% Ash content : 19.0% pH: 5.1 Personal Care Applications Applications: Personal Care Products, Cosmetics, and Oral Health Products. The safety of Glycyrrhetinic Acid, Glycyrrhizic Acid and their salts and esters has been assessed by the Cosmetic Ingredient Review (CIR) Expert Panel. The CIR Expert Panel evaluated the scientific data and concluded that Dipotassium Glycyrrhizinate is safe for use in cosmetic and personal care products. Glabridin 10% (Glycyrrhiza Glabra Root Extracts) Product Description CAS NO .: 59870-68-7 Formula: C20H20O4 Mol. Mass : 324.3704g/mol Synonyms: Glabridin; 4-[(3r)-8,8-Dimethyl-3,4-dihydro-2H-pyrano[6,5-f]chromen-3-yl]benzene-1,3-diol; 4-[(3R)-8,8-dimethyl-3,4-dihydro-2H,8H-pyrano[2,3f]chromen-3yl]benzene-1,3-diol Physical & Chemical Properties Physical state : Yellowish-brown or reddish-brown powder Solubility : Soluble in Ethanol; Insoluble in cold water, hot water Typical Analytical Values Glabridin conten t: 10.0% Personal Care Applications Applications: Personal Care Products, Cosmetics, and Oral Health Products. Glabridin 40% (Glycyrrhiza Glabra Root Extracts) Product Description CAS NO .: 59870-68-7 Formula: C20H20O4 Mol. Mass : 324.3704g/mol Synonyms: Glabridin; 4-[(3r)-8,8-Dimethyl-3,4-dihydro-2H-pyrano[6,5-f]chromen-3-yl]benzene-1,3-diol; 4-[(3R)-8,8-dimethyl-3,4-dihydro-2H,8H-pyrano[2,3f]chromen-3yl]benzene-1,3-diol Physical & Chemical Properties Physical state : Yellowish-brown or reddish-brown powder Solubility : Soluble in Ethanol; Insoluble in cold water, hot water Typical Analytical Values Glabridin conten t: 40.0% Personal Care Applications Applications: Personal Care Products, Cosmetics, and Oral Health Products. Glabridin 90% (Glycyrrhiza Glabra Root Extracts) Product Description CAS NO .: 59870-68-7 Formula: C20H20O4 Mol. Mass : 324.3704g/mol Synonyms: Glabridin; 4-[(3r)-8,8-Dimethyl-3,4-dihydro-2H-pyrano[6,5-f]chromen-3-yl]benzene-1,3-diol; 4-[(3R)-8,8-dimethyl-3,4-dihydro-2H,8H-pyrano[2,3f]chromen-3yl]benzene-1,3-diol Physical & Chemical Properties Physical state : Yellowish-brown or reddish-brown powder Solubility : Soluble in Ethanol; Insoluble in cold water, hot water Typical Analytical Values Glabridin conten t: 90.0% Personal Care Applications Applications: Personal Care Products, Cosmetics, and Oral Health Products. Stearyl Glycyrrhetinate Product Description CAS NO.: 13832-70-7 Stearyl Glycyrrhetinate Formula: C48H82O4 Mol. Mass : 723.16g/mol Synonyms: Glycyrrhetinic Acid Stearylester; Glycyrrhetic Acid Stearyl HTC Code : 2938.90 Physical & Chemical Properties Physical state: White to pale yellow powder Solubility: Soluble in mineral oil, polyethylene glycol, stearyl alcohol and petroleum jelly; very slightly soluble in water Typical Analytical Values Glycyrrhizic Acid content : 98.0% Loss on Drying: 0.3% Ash: 0.0.1% Personal Care Applications Applications: Personal care products, cosmetics, oral health products. Glycyrrhizic Acid Product Description CAS NO.: 1405-86-3 Formula: C42H62O16 Mol. Mass : 822.93 g/mol Synonyms: Glycyrrhizin HTC Code: 2938.90 Physical & Chemical Properties Physical state: White powder Solubility: Soluble in water and hydro-alcohol solutions at recommended dosage levels; soluble in glycerine and propylene glycol, and low pH solutions Typical Analytical Values Glycyrrhizic Acid content: 99.0% Loss on Drying : 2.5% Personal Care Applications Applications: Personal Care Products, Cosmetics, and Oral Health Products. Enoxolone 18 Beta Glycyrrhetinic Acid Product Description CAS NO. : 471-53-4 Formula: C30H46O4 Mol. Mass: 470.69 g/mol Synonyms: 18-beta-Glycyrrhetic Acid HTC Code: 2938.90 Physical & Chemical Properties Physical state: White to Off-white powder Solubility: Soluble in ethanol, slightly soluble in petroleum ether; insoluble in water Typical Analytical Values Glycyrrhizic Acid content: 99.0% Loss on Drying: 0.1% Personal Care Applications Applications: Personal Care Products, Cosmetics, and Oral Health Products. The safety of Glycyrrhetinic Acid, Glycyrrhizic Acid and their salts and esters has been assessed by the Cosmetic Ingredient Review (CIR) Expert Panel. The CIR Expert Panel evaluated the scientific data and concluded that Glycyrrhetinic Acid is safe for use in cosmetic and personal care products. Liquiritin (Glycyrrhiza Uralensis Licorice Root Extract) Liquiritin Product Description CAS NO .: 551-15-5 Formula: C21H22O9 Mol. Mass: 418.4 g/mol Synonyms: Liquiritoside HTC Code: Physical & Chemical Properties Physical state : Powder Solubility : Sparingly soluble in Dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), Dimethylformamide (DMF) Typical Analytical Values Assay : 98.0% Loss on Drying : 3.0% Ash content : 0.1% Personal Care Applications Applications: Cosmetics The safety of Glycyrrhiza Uralensis Licorice Root Extract has been assessed by the Cosmetic Ingredient Review (CIR) Expert Panel. The CIR Expert Panel evaluated the scientific data and concluded that Glycyrrhiza Uralensis Licorice Root Extract is safe for use in cosmetic products. Licochalcone A (Glycyrrhiza Inflate Root Extract) Licochalcone A Product Description CAS NO .: 58749-22-7 Formula: C 21 H 22 O 4 Mol. Mass: 338.4 g/moll Synonyms: None HTC Code: Physical & Chemical Properties Physical state : Powder Solubility : Sparingly soluble in Dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), Dimethylformamide (DMF), Ethanol Typical Analytical Values Assay : 20.6% Loss on Drying : 1.2% Ash content : 0.2% Personal Care Applications Applications: Cosmetics The safety of Glycyrrhiza Inflata Root Extract has been assessed by the Cosmetic Ingredient Review (CIR) Expert Panel. The CIR Expert Panel evaluated the scientific data and concluded that Glycyrrhiza Inflata Root Extract is safe for use in cosmetic products. External Resources Please see the links below to the publicly available INCI decoder for Pure Licorice Derivatives. This site also provides references to consumer products containing Pure Licorice Derivatives. Ammonium Glycyrrhizate Dipotassium Glycyrrhizate Glabridin Stearyl Glycrrhetinate Glycyrrhizic Acid Glycyrrhetinic Acid Let’s Craft Your Next Creation! Mafco’s MagnaSweet® lines of products are extraordinary and versatile masking agents, sweetness intensifiers and extenders, and flavor enhancers. They are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications. Please let us know how we can help with your next incredible creation! Start with a Sample MagnaSweet® General Inquiries Request a Quote FAQ General Inquiries Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Quote Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Sample Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Speak with an Expert Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Copyright © 2023 Mafco Worldwide LLC. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy Notice Another Design by: LDR Design Agency Home MagnaSweet® Toggle child menu Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Our Locations FAQ Request a Sample Call Us ×


 
https://mafco.com/about-mafco
About Mafco - Mafco Worldwide Skip to content Request a Sample Speak with an Expert Phone +1-856-964-8840 Location View Our Locations Home MagnaSweet® Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Phone +1-856-964-8840 Toggle Menu About Mafco Home \- About Mafco About Mafco At A Glance Mafco Worldwide LLC, established in 1850, is now a subsidiary of Whole Earth Brands , listed on NASDAQ under the symbol “FREE”. For more than 170 years, Mafco has dominated the global market in providing products made from licorice roots. These roots come from the Glycyrrhiza species of plants, which are found growing wild in Central Asia, China, and the Middle East. Licorice root is unique as it’s the only plant known to naturally produce glycyrrhizic acid . Mafco’s product range is built upon the distinctive and natural chemistry of licorice root, leveraging its specific functional properties. Pure Licorice Derivatives and Magnasweet® With a strong reputation, focused business approach, extensive global manufacturing presence, advanced technical capabilities, and solid financial standing, Mafco is widely recognized as the preferred global supplier for all kinds of licorice products. Pure Licorice derivatives are isolated from licorice roots through a multi-step extraction and purification process in Mafco’s global factories. The primary functional ingredient in Mafco’s Magnasweet® line of products are Pure Licorice Derivatives derived from licorice roots. Mafco manufactures pure licorice derivatives that are declared natural in the USA, Europe, and in other regions. Pure Licorice Derivatives and Magnasweet® Applications Food and Beverage Masking the aftertaste from high-intensity sweeteners, plant proteins, vitamins, minerals, and CBD oils Extending, intensifying, and improving sweetness when used in conjunction with primary sweeteners Improving mouthfeel, enabling sodium salt reduction, and enhancing flavors Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Our pure derivatives are used globally in OTC chewable tablets , gummies, and cough and cold syrups for adults and children. The time-delayed onset, intensity, and long-lasting sweetness match the timing and intensity of the onset of the aftertastes from pharmaceutical actives and nutraceutical ingredients Cosmetic and Personal Care Products Used in hundreds of premium personal care products sold worldwide Moisturizing the skin, soothing topical skin irritations, reducing skin inflammation, inhibiting skin melanin production, and general skin health. Oral Care Masking the aftertaste of active ingredients in mouthwashes and breath sprays Creating a natural foam in toothpaste Mafco’s Licorice Supply Chain Mafco’s licorice products are derived from the roots of the glycyrrhiza species of plant, a shrub-like leguminous plant that is indigenous to the Middle East and Central Asia The plant’s roots, which can be up to several inches thick and up to 25 feet long, are harvested when the plant is approximately four years old. The roots are then cleaned, dried and bagged or pressed into bales. Mafco’s raw material supply chain provides Mafco with the best quality and widest selection of licorice raw materials. Mafco maintains licorice inventories at level to cover a minimum of one year of demand for raw materials and 4-5 months for finished goods. Let’s Craft Your Next Creation! Mafco’s MagnaSweet® lines of products are extraordinary and versatile masking agents, sweetness intensifiers and extenders, and flavor enhancers. They are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications. Please let us know how we can help with your next incredible creation! Start with a Sample MagnaSweet® General Inquiries Request a Quote FAQ General Inquiries Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Quote Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Sample Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Speak with an Expert Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Copyright © 2023 Mafco Worldwide LLC. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy Notice Another Design by: LDR Design Agency Home MagnaSweet® Toggle child menu Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Our Locations FAQ Request a Sample Call Us ×


 
https://mafco.com/news
News You Can Use - Mafco Worldwide Skip to content Request a Sample Speak with an Expert Phone +1-856-964-8840 Location View Our Locations Home MagnaSweet® Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Phone +1-856-964-8840 Toggle Menu News You Can Use Home \- News You Can Use Enjoy Our Monthly Newsletters Discover the latest industry trends and learn more about our NEW Magna-Brands™, powered by the science of MagnaSweet® Vitamin Gummies with MagnaSweet® SwE-061 By Mafco March 20, 2024 April 16, 2024 News You Can Use The results from our recent Vitamin Gummies with MagnaSweet® SwE-061 demo showed Sugar-Free Vitamin Gummies with MagnaSweet® enhanced sweetness in low-sugar and sugar-free vitamin gummies. Our MagnaSweet® SwE-061 product helps… Read More Vitamin Gummies with MagnaSweet® SwE-061 Continue Block Bitterness in Protein Powder By Mafco February 2, 2024 April 3, 2024 News You Can Use BB-020 Makes Protein Powder Taste Delicious Blocking bitterness in protein powder mix recipes is our promise, reaffirming our commitment to delivering a truly enjoyable and satisfying protein supplement. MagnaB-Block BB-020… Read More Block Bitterness in Protein Powder Continue Tradeshow Event By Mafco September 15, 2023 January 11, 2024 News You Can Use Join Mafco Worldwide at Booth#3426 – SupplySide West 2023! We are thrilled to announce that Mafco Worldwide will again be a proud participant at SupplySide West, the premier ingredient event… Read More Tradeshow Event Continue Improve Mouthfeel on Low-Calorie Hard Seltzers By Mafco May 26, 2023 January 11, 2024 News You Can Use Mafco has clean-label solutions for making low-calorie hard seltzers taste great! MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-006 helps you build a richer-tasting texture to enhance the mouthfeel in products for more enjoyable experiences. Connect… Read More Improve Mouthfeel on Low-Calorie Hard Seltzers Continue Clean Label Whole Food Protein Shakes By Mafco April 30, 2023 January 11, 2024 News You Can Use Whole Food Compliant Products Mafco can now support your product development flavor challenges with Whole Foods compliant products. Mafco has groundbreaking, clean-label products that actually work. Our trademarked MagnaMouthFeel provides… Read More Clean Label Whole Food Protein Shakes Continue MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-007 By Mafco March 4, 2023 March 4, 2024 News You Can Use MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-007 helps to recreate a fuller mouthfeel and an improved natural* sweet taste in sugar-free and low sugar carbonated soft drinks comparable to full sugar. Sugar-free Lemon-Lime Flavored Carbonated… Read More MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-007 Continue Page navigation 1 2 Next Page Next Let’s Craft Your Next Creation! Mafco’s MagnaSweet® lines of products are extraordinary and versatile masking agents, sweetness intensifiers and extenders, and flavor enhancers. They are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications. Please let us know how we can help with your next incredible creation! Start with a Sample MagnaSweet® General Inquiries Request a Quote FAQ General Inquiries Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Quote Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Sample Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Speak with an Expert Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Copyright © 2023 Mafco Worldwide LLC. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy Notice Another Design by: LDR Design Agency Home MagnaSweet® Toggle child menu Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Our Locations FAQ Request a Sample Call Us ×


 
https://mafco.com/faq
FAQ - Mafco Worldwide Skip to content Request a Sample Speak with an Expert Phone +1-856-964-8840 Location View Our Locations Home MagnaSweet® Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Phone +1-856-964-8840 Toggle Menu FAQ Home \- FAQ Thank you for your interest in Mafco and the MagnaSweet series of products. Our most frequently asked questions (FAQ) are listed here. Of course, we always encourage you to speak with an expert for technical specifications regarding our brands and product applications . Product Application FAQ: Can MagnaSweet® be used as a primary sweetener? The base products Monoammonium glycyrrhizinate and Ammonium glycyrrhizinate are not classified as primary sweeteners under the current USA and European regulations. However, regulations regarding the use of Magnasweet® products vary from country to country. Is the product available in liquid and powder forms? Magnasweet® products are available as powder or liquid. The variety of products available can be viewed in the Magnasweet® Series section of our website. What are the use levels for the MagnaSweet products? The use levels vary from product to product but start as low as 20 ppm. The specific use levels for the individual Magnasweet® products are dependent upon the product and the application. Typical use levels are presented on the individual product pages. What are MagnaSweet products derived from? The base products Monoammonium Glycyrrhizinate and Ammonium Glycyrrhizinate are derived from licorice root . How do MagnaSweet products work? The Magnasweet® products work synergistically with existing flavors and sweeteners by extending and enhancing their properties and by providing a delayed onset of sweetness to the product. By doing this, Magnasweet® provides the opportunity to not only enhance flavors and sweetness but also to mask undesirable aftertastes. Purchasing Our Products FAQ Where can I buy MagnaSweet? Magna-Brands™ products can be purchased through Mafco Worldwide LLC located in Camden, NJ USA or through the offices maintained in France, China and the United Arab Emirates. How can I get a sample of the product? You can Request samples online. You can also speak with an expert for more information. Technical FAQ Is it approved for use worldwide? The base products Monoammonium Glycyrrhizinate and Ammonium Glycyrrhizinate are approved for use in foods in the United States, Europe, Australia, China and India and numerous other countries throughout the world. However, the application and use of the product is dependent upon the specific product and area of distribution. Is the MagnaSweet® product line classified as a non-nutritive sweetener? The base products Monoammonium Glycyrrhizinate and Ammonium Glycyrrhizinate are currently approved for food as a flavoring agent, flavor enhancer or surface active agent under 21CFR184.1408 of the United States Code of Federal Regulations and as a Flavour under current European regulations. Classifications for other countries vary depending on the applicable regulations. Where can I find Technical/Regulatory information? Technical and regulatory documents must be requested either through Customer Service or your Account Manager. Speak with an Expert to request this information. What are the labeling requirements for the MagnaSweet products? The base products Ammonium Glycyrrhizinate and Monoammonium Glycyrrhizinate may be labeled as “natural flavor.” However, labeling requirements for individual Magna-Brands™ products vary depending upon the formulation and the worldwide area of distribution. Are MagnaSweet products considered natural? The natural designation is dependent upon the function and/or usage level in the product, and can vary by country, please contact us for additional information. Let’s Craft Your Next Creation! Mafco’s MagnaSweet® lines of products are extraordinary and versatile masking agents, sweetness intensifiers and extenders, and flavor enhancers. They are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications. Please let us know how we can help with your next incredible creation! Start with a Sample MagnaSweet® General Inquiries Request a Quote FAQ General Inquiries Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Quote Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Sample Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Speak with an Expert Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Copyright © 2023 Mafco Worldwide LLC. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy Notice Another Design by: LDR Design Agency Home MagnaSweet® Toggle child menu Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Our Locations FAQ Request a Sample Call Us ×


 
https://mafco.com/terms-of-use
Terms of Use - Mafco Worldwide Skip to content Request a Sample Speak with an Expert Phone +1-856-964-8840 Location View Our Locations Home MagnaSweet® Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Phone +1-856-964-8840 Toggle Menu Terms of Use Home \- Terms of Use Acceptance of these Terms of Use The following terms and conditions (the “Terms of Use”) are entered into by and between you and Mafco Worldwide LLC (”Mafco”, “we”, or “us”), and govern your access to and use of Mafco.com, Magnasweet.com and all other sites and content operated and owned by us (collectively, the “Website”). Please read these Terms of Use carefully before you start to use the Website. By using the Website, you accept and agree to be bound and abide by these Terms of Use and our Privacy Notice, incorporated herein by reference. If you do not want to agree to these Terms of Use or the Privacy Notice, you must not access or use the Website. This Website is offered and available to visitors to, and users of, the Website who are 13 years of age and older. By visiting our Website, you represent and warrant that you meet the above eligibility requirements. If you do not meet these requirements, you must not access or use the Website. Changes to the Terms of Use We may revise and update these Terms of Use from time to time in our sole discretion. All changes are effective immediately when we post them, and apply to all access to and use of the Website thereafter. Your continued use of the Website following the posting of these or revised Terms of Use means that you accept and agree to the Terms, as posted. You are expected to check this page from time to time when you access this Website so you are aware of any changes, as they are binding on you. Accessing the Website We reserve the right to withdraw or amend this Website, and any service or material we provide on the Website, in our sole discretion and without notice. We will not be liable if, for any reason, all or any part of the Website is unavailable at any time or for any period. From time to time, we may restrict access to some parts of the Website, or the entire Website, to users. To access the Website or some of the resources it offers, you may be asked to provide certain information. It is a condition of your use of the Website that all the information you provide on the Website is correct, current, and complete. You agree that all information you provide to this Website or otherwise, including but not limited to through the use of any interactive features on the Website, is governed by our Privacy Notice, and you consent to all actions we take with respect to your information consistent with our Privacy Notice. Intellectual Property Rights The Website and its entire contents, features, and functionality (including but not limited to all information, software, text, displays, images, video, audio, and the design, selection, and arrangement thereof) are owned by Mafco, its licensors, or other providers of such material and are protected by United States and international copyright, trademark, patent, trade secret, and other intellectual property or proprietary rights laws. Mafco’s name, logo, and all related names, logos, product and service names, designs, and slogans are trademarks of Mafco or its affiliates or licensors. You must not use such marks without the prior written permission of Mafco. All other names, logos, product and service names, designs, and slogans on this Website are the trademarks of their respective owners. These Terms of Use permit you to use the Website for your business use only. You must not reproduce, distribute, modify, create derivative works of, publicly display, publicly perform, republish, download, store, or transmit any of the material on our Website, except as follows: Your computer may temporarily store copies of such materials in RAM incidental to your accessing and viewing those materials. You may store files that are automatically cached by your Web browser for display enhancement purposes. You may print one copy of a reasonable number of pages of the Website for your own personal, non-commercial use and not for further reproduction, publication, or distribution. You may download and edit certain informational posts and documents for distribution consistent with the purpose of promotion and in accordance with the instructions found on the Website. If we provide social media features with certain content, you may take such actions as are enabled by such features. You must not: Modify copies of any materials from the Website. Delete or alter any copyright, trademark, or other proprietary rights notices from copies of materials from the Website. Access or use for any commercial purposes, other than as expressly authorized by us, any part of the Website or any services or materials available through the Website. If you print, copy, modify, download, or otherwise use or provide any other person with access to any part of the Website in breach of the Terms of Use, your right to use the Website will stop immediately. No right, title, or interest in or to the Website or any content on the Website is transferred to you, and all rights not expressly granted are reserved by Mafco. Any use of the Website not expressly permitted by these Terms of Use is a breach of these Terms of Use and may violate copyright, trademark, and other laws. Prohibited Uses You may use the Website only for lawful purposes and in accordance with these Terms of Use. You agree not to use the Website: In any way that violates any applicable federal, state, local, or international law or regulation (including, without limitation, any laws regarding the export of data or software to and from the US or other countries and laws concerning the infringement and/or misappropriation of patent, trademark, trade secret, copyright, or other intellectual property or other rights of any party). For the purpose of exploiting, harming, or attempting to exploit or harm minors in any way by exposing them to inappropriate content, asking for personally identifiable information, or otherwise. To send, knowingly receive, upload, download, use, or re-use any material that any material that is defamatory, obscene, indecent, abusive, offensive, harassing, violent, hateful, inflammatory, or otherwise objectionable. To transmit, or procure the sending of, any advertising or promotional material, including any “junk mail,” “chain letter,” “spam,” or any other similar solicitation. To impersonate or attempt to impersonate Mafco, a Mafco employee, another visitor to the Website, or any other person or entity (including, without limitation, by using email addresses associated with any of the foregoing) or deceive any party. For any commercial activities, promotions, advertising, or sales, such as contests, sweepstakes, and other sales promotions, barter, or advertising. To engage in any other conduct that restricts or inhibits anyone’s use or enjoyment of the Website, or which, as determined by us, may harm Mafco or users of the Website or expose them to liability. Additionally, you agree not to: Use the Website in any manner that could disable, overburden, damage, or impair the Website or interfere with any other party’s use of the Website, including their ability to engage in real time activities through the Website. Use any robot, spider, or other automatic device, process, or means to access the Website for any purpose, including monitoring or copying any of the material on the Website. Use any manual process to monitor or copy any of the material on the Website or for any other unauthorized purpose without our prior written consent. Use any device, software, or routine that interferes with the proper working of the Website. Introduce any viruses, Trojan horses, worms, logic bombs, or other material that is malicious or technologically harmful. Attempt to gain unauthorized access to, interfere with, damage, or disrupt any parts of the Website, the server on which the Website is stored, or any server, computer, or database connected to the Website. Attack the Website via a denial-of-service attack or a distributed denial-of-service attack. Otherwise attempt to interfere with the proper working of the Website. Enforcement of Terms of Use; Termination We have the right to: Remove any content or features on the Website for any or no reason, in our sole discretion. Take any action with respect to any visitor activity on, or contribution to, the Website that we deem necessary or appropriate in our sole discretion, including for violations or suspected violations of these Terms of Use, threats to the personal safety of visitors to the Website or the public, or behavior that may lead to liability for Mafco. Disclose your identity or other information about you to any third-party who claims that material posted by you violates their rights, including their intellectual property rights or their right to privacy. Take appropriate legal action, including without limitation, referral to law enforcement, for any illegal or unauthorized use of the Website. Terminate or suspend your access to all or part of the Website for any violation of these Terms of Use. Without limiting the foregoing, we have the right to cooperate fully with any law enforcement authorities or court order requesting or directing us to disclose the identity or other information of anyone posting any materials on or through or otherwise utilizing the Website. YOU WAIVE AND HOLD HARMLESS MAFCO AND ITS AFFILIATES, LICENSEES, AND SERVICE PROVIDERS FROM ANY CLAIMS RESULTING FROM ANY ACTION TAKEN BY ANY OF THE FOREGOING PARTIES DURING, OR TAKEN AS A CONSEQUENCE OF, INVESTIGATIONS BY EITHER SUCH PARTIES OR LAW ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITIES. However, we cannot review all material before it is posted on the Website, and cannot ensure prompt removal of objectionable material after it has been posted. Accordingly, we assume no liability for any action or inaction regarding transmissions, communications, or content provided by any user or third-party. We have no liability or responsibility to anyone for performance or nonperformance of the activities described in this Section. If you believe that any content on the Website violates your copyright or other rights, please notify us through the contact information provided in Section 16 below. Reliance on Information Posted The information presented on or through the Website is made available solely for general information purposes. We do not warrant the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of this information. Any reliance you place on such information is strictly at your own risk. We disclaim all liability and responsibility arising from any reliance placed on such materials by you or any other visitor to the Website, or by anyone who may be informed of any of its contents. This Website may include content provided by third-parties. All statements and/or opinions expressed in these materials, and all articles and responses to questions and other content, other than the content provided by Mafco, are solely the opinions and the responsibility of the person or entity providing those materials. These materials do not necessarily reflect the opinion of Mafco. We are not responsible, or liable to you or any third-party, for the content or accuracy of any materials provided by any third-parties. Linking to the Website and Social Media Features If appropriate, you may link to our homepage, provided you do so in a way that is fair and legal and does not damage our reputation or take advantage of it, but you must not establish a link in such a way as to suggest any form of association, approval, or endorsement on our part. This Website may provide certain social media features that enable you to: Link from your own or certain third-party websites to certain content on this Website. Send emails, posts, or other communications with certain content, or links to certain content, on this Website. Cause limited portions of content on this Website to be displayed or appear to be displayed on your own or certain third-party websites. You must not cause the Website or portions of it to be displayed on, or appear to be displayed by, any other site, for example, framing, deep linking, or in-line linking. You agree to cooperate with us in causing any unauthorized framing or linking immediately to stop. We reserve the right to withdraw linking permission without notice. You must not take any action with respect to the materials on this Website that is inconsistent with any other provision of these Terms of Use. We may disable all or any social media features and any links at any time without notice in our discretion. Links from the Website and Other Terms and Conditions The Website may contain links to other sites and resources provided by third-parties, and these links are provided for your convenience only. We have no control over the contents of those sites or resources, and we accept no responsibility for them or for any loss or damage that may arise from your use of them. If you decide to access any of the third-party websites linked to this Website, you do so entirely at your own risk and subject to the terms and conditions of use for such third-party websites. All purchases and transactions through the Website are subject to these Terms of Use and the terms and conditions imposed by the third-party facilitating the transaction. You should review the terms and conditions imposed by those third-parties before conducting a transaction. Disclaimer of Warranties You understand that we cannot and do not guarantee or warrant that files available for downloading from the internet or the Website will be free of viruses or other destructive code. You are responsible for implementing sufficient procedures and checkpoints to satisfy your particular requirements for anti-virus protection and accuracy of data input and output, and for maintaining a means external to the Website for any reconstruction of any lost data. TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PROVIDED BY LAW, WE WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY LOSS OR DAMAGE CAUSED BY A DISTRIBUTED DENIAL-OF-SERVICE ATTACK, VIRUSES, OR OTHER TECHNOLOGICALLY HARMFUL MATERIAL THAT MAY INFECT YOUR COMPUTER EQUIPMENT, COMPUTER PROGRAMS, DATA, OR OTHER PROPRIETARY MATERIAL DUE TO YOUR USE OF THE WEBSITE OR ANY SERVICES OR ITEMS OBTAINED THROUGH THE WEBSITE OR TO YOUR DOWNLOADING OF ANY MATERIAL POSTED ON IT, OR ON ANY WEBSITE LINKED TO IT. YOUR USE OF THE WEBSITE, ITS CONTENT, AND ANY SERVICES OR ITEMS OBTAINED THROUGH THE WEBSITE IS AT YOUR OWN RISK. THE WEBSITE, ITS CONTENT, AND ANY SERVICES OR ITEMS OBTAINED THROUGH THE WEBSITE ARE PROVIDED ON AN “AS IS” AND “AS AVAILABLE” BASIS, WITHOUT ANY WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED. NEITHER MAFCO NOR ANY PERSON ASSOCIATED WITH MAFCO MAKES ANY WARRANTY OR REPRESENTATION WITH RESPECT TO THE COMPLETENESS, SECURITY, RELIABILITY, QUALITY, ACCURACY, OR AVAILABILITY OF THE WEBSITE. WITHOUT LIMITING THE FOREGOING, NEITHER MAFCO NOR ANYONE ASSOCIATED WITH MAFCO REPRESENTS OR WARRANTS THAT THE WEBSITE, ITS CONTENT, OR ANY SERVICES OR ITEMS OBTAINED THROUGH THE WEBSITE WILL BE ACCURATE, RELIABLE, ERROR-FREE, OR UNINTERRUPTED, THAT DEFECTS WILL BE CORRECTED, THAT THE WEBSITE OR THE SERVER THAT MAKES IT AVAILABLE ARE FREE OF VIRUSES OR OTHER HARMFUL COMPONENTS, OR THAT THE WEBSITE OR ANY SERVICES OR ITEMS OBTAINED THROUGH THE WEBSITE WILL OTHERWISE MEET YOUR NEEDS OR EXPECTATIONS. TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PROVIDED BY LAW, MAFCO HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, STATUTORY, OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, NON-INFRINGEMENT, AND FITNESS FOR PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE FOREGOING DOES NOT AFFECT ANY WARRANTIES THAT CANNOT BE EXCLUDED OR LIMITED UNDER APPLICABLE LAW. Limitation of Liability TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PROVIDED BY LAW, IN NO EVENT WILL MAFCO, ITS AFFILIATES, OR THEIR LICENSORS, SERVICE PROVIDERS, EMPLOYEES, AGENTS, OFFICERS, OR DIRECTORS BE LIABLE FOR DAMAGES OF ANY KIND, UNDER ANY LEGAL THEORY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH YOUR USE, OR INABILITY TO USE, THE WEBSITE, ANY WEBSITES LINKED TO IT, ANY CONTENT ON THE WEBSITE OR SUCH OTHER WEBSITES, INCLUDING ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PERSONAL INJURY, PAIN AND SUFFERING, EMOTIONAL DISTRESS, LOSS OF REVENUE, LOSS OF PROFITS, LOSS OF BUSINESS OR ANTICIPATED SAVINGS, LOSS OF USE, LOSS OF GOODWILL, LOSS OF DATA, AND WHETHER CAUSED BY TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), BREACH OF CONTRACT, OR OTHERWISE, EVEN IF FORESEEABLE. THE FOREGOING DOES NOT AFFECT ANY LIABILITY THAT CANNOT BE EXCLUDED OR LIMITED UNDER APPLICABLE LAW. Indemnification You agree to defend, indemnify, and hold harmless Mafco, its affiliates, licensors, and service providers, and its and their respective officers, directors, employees, contractors, agents, licensors, suppliers, successors, and assigns from and against any claims, liabilities, damages, judgments, awards, losses, costs, expenses, or fees (including reasonable attorneys’ fees) arising out of or relating to your violation of these Terms of Use or your use of the Website, including, but not limited to, any use of the Website’s content, services, and products other than as expressly authorized in these Terms of Use or your use of any information obtained from the Website. Governing Law and Jurisdiction All matters relating to the Website and these Terms of Use and any dispute or claim arising therefrom or related thereto (in each case, including non-contractual disputes or claims), shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of New Jersey without giving effect to any choice or conflict of law provision or rule (whether of the State of New Jersey or any other jurisdiction). Any legal suit, action, or proceeding arising out of, or related to, these Terms of Use or the Website shall be instituted exclusively in the federal or state courts located in Camden County, New Jersey. You waive any and all objections to the exercise of jurisdiction over you by such courts and to venue in such courts. Waiver and Severability No waiver by Mafco of any term or condition set out in these Terms of Use shall be deemed a further or continuing waiver of such term or condition or a waiver of any other term or condition, and any failure of Mafco to assert a right or provision under these Terms of Use shall not constitute a waiver of such right or provision. If any provision of these Terms of Use is held by a court or other tribunal of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable for any reason, such provision shall be eliminated or limited to the minimum extent such that the remaining provisions of the Terms of Use will continue in full force and effect. Entire Agreement These Terms of Use and our Privacy Notice constitute the sole and entire agreement between you and us regarding the Website and supersede all prior and contemporaneous understandings, agreements, representations, and warranties, both written and oral, regarding the Website. Your Comments and Concerns This Website is operated by Mafco Worldwide LLC. You may contact us in writing at the following address: Mafco Worldwide LLC 161 Gaither Drive Suite 205 Mount Laurel, NJ 08054 Attn: Global IT Director All feedback, comments, requests for technical support, and other communications relating to the Website should be communicated to us via email at WebsiteTerms@mafcolicorice.com. Let’s Craft Your Next Creation! Mafco’s MagnaSweet® lines of products are extraordinary and versatile masking agents, sweetness intensifiers and extenders, and flavor enhancers. They are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications. Please let us know how we can help with your next incredible creation! Start with a Sample MagnaSweet® General Inquiries Request a Quote FAQ General Inquiries Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Quote Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Sample Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Speak with an Expert Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Copyright © 2023 Mafco Worldwide LLC. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy Notice Another Design by: LDR Design Agency Home MagnaSweet® Toggle child menu Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Our Locations FAQ Request a Sample Call Us ×


 
https://mafco.com/privacy-notice
Privacy Notice - Mafco Worldwide Skip to content Request a Sample Speak with an Expert Phone +1-856-964-8840 Location View Our Locations Home MagnaSweet® Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Phone +1-856-964-8840 Toggle Menu Privacy Notice Home \- Privacy Notice Mafco Worldwide LLC (“Mafco,” “we,” or “us”) respects your privacy and is committed to protecting your privacy when you visit our website at Mafco.com, Magnasweet.com and their related sites and pages (the “Website”). This privacy notice (“Privacy Notice”) describes: The types of information we may collect from you or that you may provide us. Our practices for collecting, using, maintaining, protecting, and disclosing that information. This Privacy Notice applies only to information we collect through the Website and in email or other electronic communications sent through or in connection with the Website. This Privacy Notice DOES NOT apply to information that: We collect offline or through any other means, including from any other website operated by Mafco or any third-party. You provide to or is collected by any third-party, including through any application or content that may link to or be accessible from or on the Website. These third-parties may have their own privacy policies, which we encourage you to read before providing information on or through them. PLEASE READ THIS PRIVACY NOTICE CAREFULLY TO UNDERSTAND OUR POLICIES AND PRACTICES REGARDING YOUR INFORMATION AND HOW WE WILL TREAT IT. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE WITH OUR POLICIES AND PRACTICES, DO NOT ACCESS OR USE THE WEBSITE. BY ACCESSING OR USING THE WEBSITE, YOU ACCEPT AND AGREE TO BE BOUND AND ABIDE BY OUR PRIVACY NOTICE AND OUR TERMS OF USE INTO WHICH THIS PRIVACY NOTICE IS INCORPORATED. Changes to Privacy Notice This Privacy Notice may change from time to time, and you are responsible for checking this Privacy Notice periodically for updates when accessing or using the Website. The date the Privacy Notice was last revised is identified at the top of the page. If we make material changes to how we treat your personal information, we will notify you through a notice on the Website home page. Your continued use of the Website after we make changes to this Privacy Notice is deemed to be your acceptance of those changes. Information We Collect and How We Collect It At any given time, we may collect several types of information from and about users of our Website, including information: By which you may be personally identified, such as your name, IP or physical address, email address, phone number, or any other identifier that can be used on its own or with other information to identify, contact or locate you (“personal information”); That is about you but individually does not identify you; and About your internet connection, the equipment you use to access our Website and other usage details. We may collect this information: Directly from you when you provide it to us; Automatically when you access or use the Website; and/or From third-parties, such as vendors or business partners. Information You Provide to Us The information we collect on or through our Website may include: Information that you provide by filling in forms on our Website, including, but not limited to, information you may provide to create an account, sign up to receive or download newsletters, request information, post any materials, and/or at the time you contact us; Records and copies of your correspondence with us; Your responses to surveys or questions that we might pose or ask you to complete; and Limited details of any transactions you may carry out through third-party payments system on our Website. You also may provide information to be posted on public areas of the Website, or transmitted to other users of the Website or third-parties, which is posted and/or transmitted to others at your own risk. Although we may monitor certain pages, please be aware that no security measures are perfect or impenetrable. Additionally, we cannot control the actions of other users of or visitors to the Website with whom you may choose to share information, and cannot and do not guarantee that any such posts or information will not be viewed by unauthorized persons. Automatic Information Collection and Tracking When you access and use the Website, we may use technology to automatically collect information to improve our Website and to deliver a better and more personalized service, which may include: Location data; Length of time you visit our website; Page views, click-stream information, and referring URL and logs; The resources and devices that you access and use on or through the website; and/or Information about your device and internet connection, such as the device’s unique device identifier, IP address, operating system, browser type, and network information. The Website also may access metadata and other information associated with other files stored on your device. Any such information which we may collect through automatic technological means will be aggregated as statistical data and will not include personal information (or will have personal identifiers removed). Technologies Used for Information Collection and Tracking We may use one or more technologies to accomplish automatic information collection, examples of which are found below. Cookies (or browser/mobile cookies). A cookie is a small file placed on your device. Cookies are a way to carry information from one session on a website to another, or between sessions on related websites, without having to burden a server machine with large quantities of data storage. Flash Cookies . Certain features of the Website may use local stored objects (or Flash cookies) to collect and store information about your preferences and navigation to, from, and on the Website. Web Beacons and Other Technologies . Pages of our Website and our emails may contain small electronic files known as web beacons (also referred to as clear gifs, pixel tags, and single-pixel gifs) that permit us to count users who have visited those pages or opened an email and for other related website statistics (for example, recording the popularity of certain website content and verifying system and server integrity). The information we may obtain in this manner would enable us to customize the Website and to measure the overall effectiveness of the Website. Google . Google Analytics is a web analytics service provided by Google Inc. It uses cookies to collect, for example, information about the operating system and the browser that you use, your IP address, the website you previously accessed (referrer URL) and the date and time of your visit to the Website. On subsequent repeated visits to the Website, frequently used information is automatically displayed for you. We are able to track your usage patterns with the help of the cookies. The information generated by cookies about the use of the Website is transmitted to a Google server, which may be located within or outside of, the United States, and stored there. Google will use this information to evaluate your use of the Website. Google may transfer these rights to third-parties insofar as it is required to do so by law or in order that data may be processed on Google’s behalf. By accepting this Privacy Notice, you consent to the processing of your data by Google. How We Use Your Information We may use information that we collect about you or that you provide to us, including any personal information to: Present our Website and its contents to you; Estimate audience size and usage patterns; Maintain information about your preferences and customize the Website; Recognize you when you return to our Website; Fulfill any other purpose for which you provide the information and/or for which you provide consent (such as sending you emails or newsletters); Support and troubleshoot the Website and our services; Carry out our obligations and enforce our rights arising from any contracts entered into between you and us, including for billing and collection; and/or Allow you to participate in any interactive features of our Website. Disclosure of Your Information We may disclose aggregated information about our users, and information that does not identify any individual or device, without restriction. In addition, we may disclose personal information that we collect or you provide: To our affiliates, contractors, service providers, and other third-parties we use to support our business operations; To a buyer or other successor in the event of a merger, divestiture, restructuring, reorganization, dissolution, or other sale or transfer of some or all of Mafco’s assets, whether as a going concern or as part of bankruptcy, liquidation, or similar proceeding, in which personal information held by Mafco about our users is among the assets transferred; To fulfill the purpose for which you provide it (such as transmitting emails or newsletters to the email address you provided to us for that reason or contacting you regarding samples, quotes, and/or other information about Mafco’s products and services per your request); For any other purpose disclosed by us when you provide the information or with your consent; To comply with any court order, law, or legal process, including to respond to any government or regulatory request; To enforce or apply our Terms of Use or this Privacy Notice; and/or If we believe disclosure is necessary or appropriate to protect the rights, property, or safety of our company, our customers, or others. Except as provided herein, personal information collected through the Website will not be sold or otherwise disclosed to third-parties for direct marketing purposes. Your Choices About Our Collection, Use, and Disclosure of Your Information We strive to provide you with options regarding the personal information you provide to us. If you do not want us to collect your information, as described in this Privacy Notice, do not use the Website. This section describes mechanisms we provide for you to control certain uses and disclosures of your information. Tracking Technologies . You can set your browser to refuse all or some cookies, or to alert you when cookies are being sent. To learn how you can manage your Flash cookie settings, visit the Flash player settings page on Adobe’s website. If you disable or refuse cookies or Flash cookies or block the use of other tracking technologies, some parts of the Website may then be inaccessible or not function properly. Email and Promotional Offers . When you contact us through certain forms on the Website, you may be added to our email list to receive email messages. At any time, you can choose to no longer receive such emails by using the “unsubscribe” method found at the bottom of each email or by sending us an email or other correspondence stating your request. Contact us . If you have any questions regarding this Privacy Notice, have a specific request to correct or delete any personal information that you have provided to us, or if you feel that the Website has not followed its Privacy Notice or Terms of Use, feel free to contact us, as provided below. We may not accommodate a request to change information if we believe the change would violate any law or legal requirement or cause the information to be incorrect. No Collection of Information from Children Our Website is not intended for children under 13 years of age. We do not solicit or knowingly collect any information from visitors under 13 years of age, and please do not use the Website if you are not yet 13. If we learn we have collected or received personal information from a child under 13, we will delete that information. If you believe we might have any information from or about a child under 13, please contact us immediately through the Contact Information section below. “Do Not Track” Signals For residents of California and Delaware, certain statutes, including California Bus. & Prof. Code § 22575 and 6 Del.C. § 1205C, seek disclosure of how the Website responds to web browser “do not track” signals or other mechanisms that provide consumers the ability to exercise choice regarding the collection of personal information about their online activities over time and across third-party websites or online services. Although it is not clear that the statute applies, we believe that an example might be a browser option allowing you to ask websites not to track you across third-party websites so that they can serve targeted or behavioral advertising to you. You should not use the Website if you desire a “do not track” signal, because the Website may not honor it. Using the Website from Outside the United States This Privacy Notice is intended to cover collection of information on or via the Website from residents of and within the United States. If you are visiting the Website from outside the United States, please be aware that the data protection laws governing this Website might not be as restrictive as those in your country. By using the Website, you understand that your information may be transferred to our facilities and those third-parties with whom we share it as described in this Privacy Notice. Data Security We have implemented measures designed to secure your personal information from accidental loss and from unauthorized access, use, alteration, and disclosure. The safety and security of your information also depends on you. We urge you to be careful about giving out information in any public areas of the Website. The information you share in public areas may be viewed by any user of the Website. Unfortunately, the transmission of information via the internet is never completely secure. Although we do our best to protect your personal information, we cannot guarantee the security of your personal information transmitted through our Website. Any transmission of personal information is at your own risk. We are not responsible for circumvention of any privacy settings or security measures contained on the Website. Contact Information To ask questions or to comment about this Privacy Notice or our privacy practices, please contact us you may contact us any of the following ways. By email to WebsiteTerms@mafcolicorice.com By phone by calling +1 (856) 698-1751 In writing to: Mafco Worldwide LLC 300 Jefferson Street Camden, New Jersey 08104 Let’s Craft Your Next Creation! Mafco’s MagnaSweet® lines of products are extraordinary and versatile masking agents, sweetness intensifiers and extenders, and flavor enhancers. They are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications. Please let us know how we can help with your next incredible creation! Start with a Sample MagnaSweet® General Inquiries Request a Quote FAQ General Inquiries Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Quote Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Sample Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Speak with an Expert Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Copyright © 2023 Mafco Worldwide LLC. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy Notice Another Design by: LDR Design Agency Home MagnaSweet® Toggle child menu Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Our Locations FAQ Request a Sample Call Us ×


 
https://mafco.com/magnasweet/
MagnaSweet® for Food & Pharmaceutical - Mafco Worldwide Skip to content Request a Sample Speak with an Expert Phone +1-856-964-8840 Location View Our Locations Home MagnaSweet® Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Phone +1-856-964-8840 Toggle Menu MagnaSweet® for Food & Pharmaceutical Home \- MagnaSweet® for Food & Pharmaceutical Improve Taste & Mouthfeel with MagnaSweet® MagnaSweet® is a family of products derived from Glycyrrhizic Acid. Glycyrrhizic Acid is the unique ingredient found in licorice root that has a characteristically intense and long-lasting sweet taste. The MagnaSweet® Series is a line of products based on Monoammonium Glycyrrhizinate (MAG), which is the ammonia salt form of Glycyrrhizic Acid, and does not impart any licorice flavor. MagnaSweet® may be classified as non-GMO, Kosher, Halal, Natural* (depending on local regulations), and GRAS. Our products are effective at extremely low dosages and stable under most processing conditions. Mafco through its MagnaSweet line, offers versatile sweetness intensifiers, masking agents, mouthfeel modulators , and flavor enhancers. Our products are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications in diverse industries such as foods, beverages, pharmaceuticals , and nutraceuticals. In its pure form, Glycyrrhizic Acid imparts no licorice flavor and can be used to intensify sweetness, enhance flavors, and eliminate undesirable tastes. MagnaSweet® Key Performance Attributes: Eliminate Aftertastes Mafco delivers technically advanced solutions for a wide range of applications to specifically target and eliminate undesirable aftertastes. These are bitter, astringent, sour, acidic, metallic, and medicinal aftertaste often encountered in consumer products. Intensify and Extend Sweetness MagnaSweet® utilizes the naturally present sweetness compounds found in Glycyrrhizic Acid as a basis for its sweet taste. The synergistic properties of Glycyrrhizic Acid, when combined with another sweetener or an ingredient containing natural sweeteners, increase and extend the sweetness flavor profile of consumer products. Enhance and Prolong Flavors MagnaSweet® improves taste perception in product applications by improving the flavor strength and extending flavor duration. Applications including beverages, gummies, chewable vitamins, lozenges, chewing gum, chocolate, and more, are particularly well suited for flavor enhancement using MagnaSweet®. Improve Mouthfeel MagnaSweet® products have a unique sensorial property of increasing the perception of mouthfeel. This attribute is triggered by the hydro-colloidic effect of certain MagnaSweet® products with water to create a “silky smooth” texture in reduced fat and fat-free products as well as a fuller mouthfeel in sugar-free products. Innovative & Cost-Effective Taste Solutions Supporting a Range of Product Applications MagnaSweet® products are used extensively in a wide range of food, beverage, pharmaceutical, confectionery, and nutraceutical products. They are effective flavor modulation tools that provide excellent bitterness and aftertaste masking, sweetness intensification and prolongation, flavor enhancement, and mouthfeel improvement. MagnaSweet® Primary Functional Applications: Improve and Extend the Sweetness of Reduced Sugar and Sugar-Free Beverages and Foods. Make your products taste as sweet as they need to be without the added cost, calories, or sugar thanks to MagnaSweet® products, which enhance the sweetness and natural flavors in a wide range of applications. Magnasweet® products work particularly well in applications looking to replace aspartame with stevia. Magnasweet® masks the characteristic aftertaste of stevia to deliver improved and well-rounded sweetness in a variety of low-sugar and sugar-free foods and beverages. Block Bitterness in Food and Beverages Reduce metallic and bitter flavor notes that are characteristic of functional ingredients. Our bitter modulation products mask off-notes and lingering aftertastes to improve the overall flavor profile. Mask Off-Notes and Bitterness of Pharmaceutical Actives and Nutraceuticals Mask unpleasant flavors and eliminate lingering aftertastes from pharmaceutical actives and nutraceutical functional ingredients to help improve the consumer experience and taste profile of your products. This improvement works in syrups, chewies, and gummies. Reduce / Eliminate Off-tastes from Plant and Dairy Proteins Mask off-notes associated with plant and dairy proteins , such as green, cardboard, or earthy notes, and allow for higher doses of plant proteins in your formulations. Reduce bitter and unpleasant lingering aftertastes. Enhance Savory Flavors and Enable Sodium Salt Reduction Enhance and optimize overall taste with a well-rounded flavor profile. Increase the perception of saltiness and umami flavors without adding sodium. Improve Mouthfeel in Low-fat Foods and Beverages Increase fullness and improve mouthfeel in low-fat and low-sugar applications to simulate a creamy or silky texture. Used to compensate for products with a chalky or thin texture. MagnaSweet® Product Portfolio The MagnaSweet® product portfolio is divided into four main categories: MM100 Series The Magnasweet® 100 Series has existed for over 30 years and is proven to improve taste and sweetness in a wide variety of product applications. It is an essential tool for masking or eliminating aftertastes, intensifying sweetness, extending sweetness, and enhancing other flavors. MagnaSweet® 100 Series products are available in both liquid and powder forms and have different formulations with non-MAG components to meet your specific goals. MM200 Series MagnaSweet® 200 Series is an extension of the traditional Monoammonium Glycyrrhizinate (MAG) products and has improved solubility at low pH, better initial sweetness, and greater sweetness intensity. MagnaSweet® 200 Series products are sold in both liquid and solid powder forms with products in the Magnasweet® 200 Series to meet your specific goals in a wide variety of product applications. MM300 Series MagnaSweet® 300 Series is a product based on Ammoniated Glycyrrhizin (AG), which is the basic ammonia salt form of Crude Glycyrrhizic Acid. Glycyrrhizic Acid is the unique ingredient found in licorice root. MagnaSweet® 300 Series has several key performance attributes: providing a slight licorice flavor, masking or eliminating aftertastes, enhancing and extending flavors, and modulating sweetness. The MagnaSweet® 300 Series is effective in applications that can accommodate the slight licorice flavor, such as savory products, tomato-based products, vanilla, coffee, and chocolate-flavored items. Compound Solutions Our compound solutions are a portfolio of versatile sweetness modulators, masking agents, and mouthfeel enhancers. Available in both liquid and powder forms with various solubilities, these products are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications and address specific regulatory compliance needs. Let’s Craft Your Next Creation! Mafco’s MagnaSweet® lines of products are extraordinary and versatile masking agents, sweetness intensifiers and extenders, and flavor enhancers. They are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications. Please let us know how we can help with your next incredible creation! Start with a Sample MagnaSweet® General Inquiries Request a Quote FAQ General Inquiries Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Quote Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Sample Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Speak with an Expert Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Copyright © 2023 Mafco Worldwide LLC. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy Notice Another Design by: LDR Design Agency Home MagnaSweet® Toggle child menu Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Our Locations FAQ Request a Sample Call Us ×


 
https://mafco.com/news/vitamin-gummies
https://mafco.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/10/NYCU-MagnaSweet-Sugar-Free-Vitamin-Gummies-10-29-22-new.pdf



 
https://mafco.com/news/vitamin-gummies
Vitamin Gummies with MagnaSweet® SwE-061 - Mafco Worldwide Skip to content Request a Sample Speak with an Expert Phone +1-856-964-8840 Location View Our Locations Home MagnaSweet® Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Phone +1-856-964-8840 Toggle Menu Vitamin Gummies with MagnaSweet® SwE-061 By Mafco – March 20, 2024 Home \- News You Can Use \- Vitamin Gummies with MagnaSweet® SwE-061 The results from our recent Vitamin Gummies with MagnaSweet® SwE-061 demo showed Sugar-Free Vitamin Gummies with MagnaSweet® enhanced sweetness in low-sugar and sugar-free vitamin gummies. Our MagnaSweet® SwE-061 product helps to mask bitterness and o­ff-tastes from stevia, vitamins, DHA, amino acids, and minerals for an overall improved taste experience. Mafco understands that every product has different taste challenges, and that is why we offer products that can be engineered to work with your product’s specific taste challenges. Our industry-leading taste solutions are customizable, cost-efficient, and highly effective. Loading... Speak With an Expert Download the PDF Request a Sample Post navigation Previous Previous Block Bitterness in Protein Powder Related Posts MagnaBoost SE-014 Cheese By Mafco May 31, 2022 January 11, 2024 News You Can Use The results from our MagnaBoost Cheese Powder Demo are delicious. MagNaBoost™ SE-014 supports up to a 30% sodium reduction in cheese seasoning without sacricing taste. With MagNaBoost, formulators can create… Read More MagnaBoost SE-014 Cheese Continue Improve Mouthfeel on Low-Calorie Hard Seltzers By Mafco May 26, 2023 January 11, 2024 News You Can Use Mafco has clean-label solutions for making low-calorie hard seltzers taste great! MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-006 helps you build a richer-tasting texture to enhance the mouthfeel in products for more enjoyable experiences. Connect… Read More Improve Mouthfeel on Low-Calorie Hard Seltzers Continue MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-007 By Mafco March 4, 2023 March 4, 2024 News You Can Use MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-007 helps to recreate a fuller mouthfeel and an improved natural* sweet taste in sugar-free and low sugar carbonated soft drinks comparable to full sugar. Sugar-free Lemon-Lime Flavored Carbonated… Read More MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-007 Continue Let’s Craft Your Next Creation! Mafco’s MagnaSweet® lines of products are extraordinary and versatile masking agents, sweetness intensifiers and extenders, and flavor enhancers. They are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications. Please let us know how we can help with your next incredible creation! Start with a Sample MagnaSweet® General Inquiries Request a Quote FAQ General Inquiries Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Quote Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Sample Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Speak with an Expert Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Copyright © 2023 Mafco Worldwide LLC. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy Notice Another Design by: LDR Design Agency Home MagnaSweet® Toggle child menu Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Our Locations FAQ Request a Sample Call Us ×


 
https://mafco.com/news/bitterness-in-protein-mix
Block Bitterness in Protein Powder - Mafco Worldwide Skip to content Request a Sample Speak with an Expert Phone +1-856-964-8840 Location View Our Locations Home MagnaSweet® Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Phone +1-856-964-8840 Toggle Menu Block Bitterness in Protein Powder By Mafco – February 2, 2024 Home \- News You Can Use \- Block Bitterness in Protein Powder BB-020 Makes Protein Powder Taste Delicious Blocking bitterness in protein powder mix recipes is our promise, reaffirming our commitment to delivering a truly enjoyable and satisfying protein supplement. MagnaB-Block BB-020 serves as a vital component in our powdered branched-chain amino acid ( BCAA ) workout drink, expertly concealing the inherent bitterness of hydrolyzed amino acids. Beyond mere compliance, our dedication to quality ensures that our protein powder meets rigorous organic, Whole Foods, and regional standards, providing customers with a premium and wholesome experience. Meticulously crafted for purity and nutritional excellence, our protein powder bitter-blocking ingredients stand as a testament to our commitment to supporting fitness products that exceed expectations for both taste and effectiveness. Speak With an Expert Download the PDF Request a Sample Post navigation Previous Previous Tradeshow Event Next Continue Vitamin Gummies with MagnaSweet® SwE-061 Related Posts MagnaSweet® SwE-089 By Mafco September 14, 2022 January 11, 2024 News You Can Use Highly Cost-Effective Sugar Reduction Solutions Without Compromising Taste is Simple with MagnaSweet®. Our industry-leading taste and mouthfeel solutions are customizable, cost-efficient, and highly effective in reducing sugar naturally. Sugar provides… Read More MagnaSweet® SwE-089 Continue MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-007 By Mafco March 4, 2023 March 4, 2024 News You Can Use MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-007 helps to recreate a fuller mouthfeel and an improved natural* sweet taste in sugar-free and low sugar carbonated soft drinks comparable to full sugar. Sugar-free Lemon-Lime Flavored Carbonated… Read More MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-007 Continue Clean Label Whole Food Protein Shakes By Mafco April 30, 2023 January 11, 2024 News You Can Use Whole Food Compliant Products Mafco can now support your product development flavor challenges with Whole Foods compliant products. Mafco has groundbreaking, clean-label products that actually work. Our trademarked MagnaMouthFeel provides… Read More Clean Label Whole Food Protein Shakes Continue Let’s Craft Your Next Creation! Mafco’s MagnaSweet® lines of products are extraordinary and versatile masking agents, sweetness intensifiers and extenders, and flavor enhancers. They are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications. Please let us know how we can help with your next incredible creation! Start with a Sample MagnaSweet® General Inquiries Request a Quote FAQ General Inquiries Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Quote Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Sample Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Speak with an Expert Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Copyright © 2023 Mafco Worldwide LLC. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy Notice Another Design by: LDR Design Agency Home MagnaSweet® Toggle child menu Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Our Locations FAQ Request a Sample Call Us ×


 
https://mafco.com/news/tradeshow-event
Tradeshow Event - Mafco Worldwide Press Alt+1 for screen-reader mode, Alt+0 to cancel Accessibility Screen-Reader Guide, Feedback, and Issue Reporting Skip to content Request a Sample Speak with an Expert Phone +1-856-964-8840 Location View Our Locations Home MagnaSweet® Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Phone +1-856-964-8840 Toggle Menu Tradeshow Event By Mafco – September 15, 2023 Home \- News You Can Use \- Tradeshow Event Join Mafco Worldwide at Booth#3426 – SupplySide West 2023! We are thrilled to announce that Mafco Worldwide will again be a proud participant at SupplySide West, the premier ingredient event in the United States, focused on revolutionizing food, beverage, and supplement innovation. With over 18,000 professionals from the health and nutrition industry in attendance, this is an event you won’t want to miss. Why Mafco Worldwide At Mafco, we are recognized as an industry leader in taste modulation, offering innovative solutions to enhance the sensory experience of food and beverage products. Our expertise spans across various facets of the industry: Bitterness Blocking Sweetness Enhancement Protein Masking Mouthfeel Enhancement We cordially invite you to explore the world of flavor with Mafco at our booth. Meet our expert team at Booth# 3426 and get a firsthand look at our cutting-edge developments in taste modulation. Discover how we can help you create products that captivate the taste buds of your consumers. Tradeshow Event Details: October 25-26 2023 EXPO HALL Booth#3426, SupplySide West Mandalay Bay, Las Vegas, NV Don’t miss this exciting opportunity to connect with us and explore the future of taste innovation. Let’s collaborate and bring unforgettable flavors to the world of food and beverages together. See you at SupplySide West 2023! Mafco Worldwide #SupplySideWest #TasteInnovation #FlavorEnhancement #FoodIndustry #BevSupInnovation Post navigation Previous Previous Improve Mouthfeel on Low-Calorie Hard Seltzers Next Continue Block Bitterness in Protein Powder Related Posts Block Bitterness in Protein Powder By Mafco February 2, 2024 April 3, 2024 News You Can Use BB-020 Makes Protein Powder Taste Delicious Blocking bitterness in protein powder mix recipes is our promise, reaffirming our commitment to delivering a truly enjoyable and satisfying protein supplement. MagnaB-Block BB-020… Read More Block Bitterness in Protein Powder Continue MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-007 By Mafco March 4, 2023 March 4, 2024 News You Can Use MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-007 helps to recreate a fuller mouthfeel and an improved natural* sweet taste in sugar-free and low sugar carbonated soft drinks comparable to full sugar. Sugar-free Lemon-Lime Flavored Carbonated… Read More MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-007 Continue MagnaSweet® SwE-089 By Mafco September 14, 2022 January 11, 2024 News You Can Use Highly Cost-Effective Sugar Reduction Solutions Without Compromising Taste is Simple with MagnaSweet®. Our industry-leading taste and mouthfeel solutions are customizable, cost-efficient, and highly effective in reducing sugar naturally. Sugar provides… Read More MagnaSweet® SwE-089 Continue Let’s Craft Your Next Creation! Mafco’s MagnaSweet® lines of products are extraordinary and versatile masking agents, sweetness intensifiers and extenders, and flavor enhancers. They are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications. Please let us know how we can help with your next incredible creation! Start with a Sample MagnaSweet® General Inquiries Request a Quote FAQ General Inquiries Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Quote Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Sample Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Speak with an Expert Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Copyright © 2023 Mafco Worldwide LLC. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy Notice Another Design by: LDR Design Agency Home MagnaSweet® Toggle child menu Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Our Locations FAQ Request a Sample Call Us ×


 
https://mafco.com/news/seltzers
https://mafco.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/May-News-You-Can-Use-Hard-Seltzer-new.pdf



 
https://mafco.com/news/seltzers
Improve Mouthfeel on Low-Calorie Hard Seltzers - Mafco Worldwide Skip to content Request a Sample Speak with an Expert Phone +1-856-964-8840 Location View Our Locations Home MagnaSweet® Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Phone +1-856-964-8840 Toggle Menu Improve Mouthfeel on Low-Calorie Hard Seltzers By Mafco – May 26, 2023 Home \- News You Can Use \- Improve Mouthfeel on Low-Calorie Hard Seltzers Mafco has clean-label solutions for making low-calorie hard seltzers taste great! MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-006 helps you build a richer-tasting texture to enhance the mouthfeel in products for more enjoyable experiences. Connect with an expert to learn more about how we can improve your beverages. Loading... Speak With an Expert Download the PDF Request a Sample Post navigation Previous Previous Clean Label Whole Food Protein Shakes Next Continue Tradeshow Event Related Posts Clean Label Whole Food Protein Shakes By Mafco April 30, 2023 January 11, 2024 News You Can Use Whole Food Compliant Products Mafco can now support your product development flavor challenges with Whole Foods compliant products. Mafco has groundbreaking, clean-label products that actually work. Our trademarked MagnaMouthFeel provides… Read More Clean Label Whole Food Protein Shakes Continue MagnaSweet® SwE-089 By Mafco September 14, 2022 January 11, 2024 News You Can Use Highly Cost-Effective Sugar Reduction Solutions Without Compromising Taste is Simple with MagnaSweet®. Our industry-leading taste and mouthfeel solutions are customizable, cost-efficient, and highly effective in reducing sugar naturally. Sugar provides… Read More MagnaSweet® SwE-089 Continue Magna-Brands™ Demo in Hard Lemon Tea By Mafco February 11, 2023 January 11, 2024 News You Can Use Magna-Brands™ Sweetness + Mouthfeel Enhancers are Perfect Partners for Low-Calorie Adult Beverages. Mintel Hard Beverage Insights Demonstrate: The Magna-Brands™ Demo in Hard Lemon Tea demonstrated that MagnaSweet SwE-063 functionalities enhance… Read More Magna-Brands™ Demo in Hard Lemon Tea Continue Let’s Craft Your Next Creation! Mafco’s MagnaSweet® lines of products are extraordinary and versatile masking agents, sweetness intensifiers and extenders, and flavor enhancers. They are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications. Please let us know how we can help with your next incredible creation! Start with a Sample MagnaSweet® General Inquiries Request a Quote FAQ General Inquiries Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Quote Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Sample Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Speak with an Expert Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Copyright © 2023 Mafco Worldwide LLC. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy Notice Another Design by: LDR Design Agency Home MagnaSweet® Toggle child menu Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Our Locations FAQ Request a Sample Call Us ×


 
https://mafco.com/news/whole-food-protein-shakes
https://mafco.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/04/MAFCO-WFC-newsletter-4.20.23-new.pdf



 
https://mafco.com/news/whole-food-protein-shakes
Clean Label Whole Food Protein Shakes - Mafco Worldwide Skip to content Request a Sample Speak with an Expert Phone +1-856-964-8840 Location View Our Locations Home MagnaSweet® Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Phone +1-856-964-8840 Toggle Menu Clean Label Whole Food Protein Shakes By Mafco – April 30, 2023 Home \- News You Can Use \- Clean Label Whole Food Protein Shakes Whole Food Compliant Products Mafco can now support your product development flavor challenges with Whole Foods compliant products. Mafco has groundbreaking, clean-label products that actually work. Our trademarked MagnaMouthFeel provides richer mouthfeel in reduced or no-sugar products, low or no-fat products or plant-based protein products. Loading... Speak With an Expert Download the PDF Request a Sample Post navigation Previous Previous MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-007 Next Continue Improve Mouthfeel on Low-Calorie Hard Seltzers Related Posts MagnaBoost SE-014 Cheese By Mafco May 31, 2022 January 11, 2024 News You Can Use The results from our MagnaBoost Cheese Powder Demo are delicious. MagNaBoost™ SE-014 supports up to a 30% sodium reduction in cheese seasoning without sacricing taste. With MagNaBoost, formulators can create… Read More MagnaBoost SE-014 Cheese Continue Vitamin Gummies with MagnaSweet® SwE-061 By Mafco March 20, 2024 April 16, 2024 News You Can Use The results from our recent Vitamin Gummies with MagnaSweet® SwE-061 demo showed Sugar-Free Vitamin Gummies with MagnaSweet® enhanced sweetness in low-sugar and sugar-free vitamin gummies. Our MagnaSweet® SwE-061 product helps… Read More Vitamin Gummies with MagnaSweet® SwE-061 Continue MagnaSweet® SwE-089 By Mafco September 14, 2022 January 11, 2024 News You Can Use Highly Cost-Effective Sugar Reduction Solutions Without Compromising Taste is Simple with MagnaSweet®. Our industry-leading taste and mouthfeel solutions are customizable, cost-efficient, and highly effective in reducing sugar naturally. Sugar provides… Read More MagnaSweet® SwE-089 Continue Let’s Craft Your Next Creation! Mafco’s MagnaSweet® lines of products are extraordinary and versatile masking agents, sweetness intensifiers and extenders, and flavor enhancers. They are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications. Please let us know how we can help with your next incredible creation! Start with a Sample MagnaSweet® General Inquiries Request a Quote FAQ General Inquiries Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Quote Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Sample Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Speak with an Expert Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Copyright © 2023 Mafco Worldwide LLC. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy Notice Another Design by: LDR Design Agency Home MagnaSweet® Toggle child menu Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Our Locations FAQ Request a Sample Call Us ×


 
https://mafco.com/news/magnamouthfeel-mmf-007
https://mafco.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/NYCU-MagnaMouthFeel-CSD-demo-6-20-22-new.pdf



 
https://mafco.com/news/magnamouthfeel-mmf-007
MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-007 - Mafco Worldwide Skip to content Request a Sample Speak with an Expert Phone +1-856-964-8840 Location View Our Locations Home MagnaSweet® Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Phone +1-856-964-8840 Toggle Menu MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-007 By Mafco – March 4, 2023 Home \- News You Can Use \- MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-007 MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-007 helps to recreate a fuller mouthfeel and an improved natural* sweet taste in sugar-free and low sugar carbonated soft drinks comparable to full sugar. Sugar-free Lemon-Lime Flavored Carbonated Soft Drink Demo Sugar provides multi-functionality in beverages beyond sweetness, including bulk and mouthfeel. MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-007 helps to recreate a fuller mouthfeel and an improved natural* sweet taste in sugar-free and low-sugar carbonated soft drinks comparable to full sugar. Sugar Is An Unwelcome Ingredient in CSDs The war on sugar continues to make headlines across the world, but the CSD category remains on the firing line in many regions. With rising health concerns and instances of lifestyle diseases, sugar reduction strategies are increasingly being advocated by government agencies. Pressure from consumers and government initiatives around excessive sugar consumption has surpassed CSD brands to reduce sugar content. *Depending on the function and/or usage level in the product, and can vary by country Loading... Speak With an Expert Download the PDF Request a Sample Post navigation Previous Previous Magna-Brands™ Demo in Hard Lemon Tea Next Continue Clean Label Whole Food Protein Shakes Related Posts Block Bitterness in Protein Powder By Mafco February 2, 2024 April 3, 2024 News You Can Use BB-020 Makes Protein Powder Taste Delicious Blocking bitterness in protein powder mix recipes is our promise, reaffirming our commitment to delivering a truly enjoyable and satisfying protein supplement. MagnaB-Block BB-020… Read More Block Bitterness in Protein Powder Continue Magna-Brands™ Demo in Hard Lemon Tea By Mafco February 11, 2023 January 11, 2024 News You Can Use Magna-Brands™ Sweetness + Mouthfeel Enhancers are Perfect Partners for Low-Calorie Adult Beverages. Mintel Hard Beverage Insights Demonstrate: The Magna-Brands™ Demo in Hard Lemon Tea demonstrated that MagnaSweet SwE-063 functionalities enhance… Read More Magna-Brands™ Demo in Hard Lemon Tea Continue MagnaBoost SE-014 Cheese By Mafco May 31, 2022 January 11, 2024 News You Can Use The results from our MagnaBoost Cheese Powder Demo are delicious. MagNaBoost™ SE-014 supports up to a 30% sodium reduction in cheese seasoning without sacricing taste. With MagNaBoost, formulators can create… Read More MagnaBoost SE-014 Cheese Continue Let’s Craft Your Next Creation! Mafco’s MagnaSweet® lines of products are extraordinary and versatile masking agents, sweetness intensifiers and extenders, and flavor enhancers. They are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications. Please let us know how we can help with your next incredible creation! Start with a Sample MagnaSweet® General Inquiries Request a Quote FAQ General Inquiries Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Quote Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Sample Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Speak with an Expert Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Copyright © 2023 Mafco Worldwide LLC. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy Notice Another Design by: LDR Design Agency Home MagnaSweet® Toggle child menu Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Our Locations FAQ Request a Sample Call Us ×


 
https://mafco.com/news/page/2
News You Can Use - Mafco Worldwide Skip to content Request a Sample Speak with an Expert Phone +1-856-964-8840 Location View Our Locations Home MagnaSweet® Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Phone +1-856-964-8840 Toggle Menu News You Can Use Home \- News You Can Use \- Page 2 Enjoy Our Monthly Newsletters Discover the latest industry trends and learn more about our NEW Magna-Brands™, powered by the science of MagnaSweet® Magna-Brands™ Demo in Hard Lemon Tea By Mafco February 11, 2023 January 11, 2024 News You Can Use Magna-Brands™ Sweetness + Mouthfeel Enhancers are Perfect Partners for Low-Calorie Adult Beverages. Mintel Hard Beverage Insights Demonstrate: The Magna-Brands™ Demo in Hard Lemon Tea demonstrated that MagnaSweet SwE-063 functionalities enhance… Read More Magna-Brands™ Demo in Hard Lemon Tea Continue MagnaSweet® SwE-089 By Mafco September 14, 2022 January 11, 2024 News You Can Use Highly Cost-Effective Sugar Reduction Solutions Without Compromising Taste is Simple with MagnaSweet®. Our industry-leading taste and mouthfeel solutions are customizable, cost-efficient, and highly effective in reducing sugar naturally. Sugar provides… Read More MagnaSweet® SwE-089 Continue MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-006 By Mafco July 10, 2022 January 11, 2024 News You Can Use Seeking Sugar Reduced Cran-Raspberry or Apple Juice Mouthfeel Improvements? MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-006 helps to recreate a fuller mouthfeel and an improved natural* sweet taste in sugar-free and low-sugar drinks comparable to… Read More MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-006 Continue MagnaBoost SE-014 Cheese By Mafco May 31, 2022 January 11, 2024 News You Can Use The results from our MagnaBoost Cheese Powder Demo are delicious. MagNaBoost™ SE-014 supports up to a 30% sodium reduction in cheese seasoning without sacricing taste. With MagNaBoost, formulators can create… Read More MagnaBoost SE-014 Cheese Continue Page navigation Previous Page Previous 1 2 Let’s Craft Your Next Creation! Mafco’s MagnaSweet® lines of products are extraordinary and versatile masking agents, sweetness intensifiers and extenders, and flavor enhancers. They are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications. Please let us know how we can help with your next incredible creation! Start with a Sample MagnaSweet® General Inquiries Request a Quote FAQ General Inquiries Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Quote Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Sample Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Speak with an Expert Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Copyright © 2023 Mafco Worldwide LLC. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy Notice Another Design by: LDR Design Agency Home MagnaSweet® Toggle child menu Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Our Locations FAQ Request a Sample Call Us ×


 
https://mafco.com/news/magnaboost-cheese-powder-demo
https://mafco.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/NYCU_MagNaBoost_Cheese_Powder_Demo_5-23-22-new.pdf



 
https://mafco.com/news/magnaboost-cheese-powder-demo
MagnaBoost SE-014 Cheese - Mafco Worldwide Skip to content Request a Sample Speak with an Expert Phone +1-856-964-8840 Location View Our Locations Home MagnaSweet® Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Phone +1-856-964-8840 Toggle Menu MagnaBoost SE-014 Cheese By Mafco – May 31, 2022 Home \- News You Can Use \- MagnaBoost SE-014 Cheese The results from our MagnaBoost Cheese Powder Demo are delicious. MagNaBoost™ SE-014 supports up to a 30% sodium reduction in cheese seasoning without sacricing taste. With MagNaBoost, formulators can create lower sodium products without the bitterness and metallic off-tastes often associated with sodium-reduced foods. Masks Bitterness Masks Metallic Notes Reduce Sodium Enhances Taste Help older consumers understand that snacking can also be a form of healthy eating As the population ages, there will be a greater need for snacks that cater to the taste of older consumers. One way of marketing salty snacks to older consumers is by leveraging common health concerns, with claims such as low/no/reduced (L/N/R) sodium. Loading... Speak With an Expert Download the PDF Request a Sample Post navigation Next Continue MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-006 Related Posts MagnaSweet® SwE-089 By Mafco September 14, 2022 January 11, 2024 News You Can Use Highly Cost-Effective Sugar Reduction Solutions Without Compromising Taste is Simple with MagnaSweet®. Our industry-leading taste and mouthfeel solutions are customizable, cost-efficient, and highly effective in reducing sugar naturally. Sugar provides… Read More MagnaSweet® SwE-089 Continue MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-007 By Mafco March 4, 2023 March 4, 2024 News You Can Use MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-007 helps to recreate a fuller mouthfeel and an improved natural* sweet taste in sugar-free and low sugar carbonated soft drinks comparable to full sugar. Sugar-free Lemon-Lime Flavored Carbonated… Read More MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-007 Continue Vitamin Gummies with MagnaSweet® SwE-061 By Mafco March 20, 2024 April 16, 2024 News You Can Use The results from our recent Vitamin Gummies with MagnaSweet® SwE-061 demo showed Sugar-Free Vitamin Gummies with MagnaSweet® enhanced sweetness in low-sugar and sugar-free vitamin gummies. Our MagnaSweet® SwE-061 product helps… Read More Vitamin Gummies with MagnaSweet® SwE-061 Continue Let’s Craft Your Next Creation! Mafco’s MagnaSweet® lines of products are extraordinary and versatile masking agents, sweetness intensifiers and extenders, and flavor enhancers. They are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications. Please let us know how we can help with your next incredible creation! Start with a Sample MagnaSweet® General Inquiries Request a Quote FAQ General Inquiries Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Quote Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Sample Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Speak with an Expert Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Copyright © 2023 Mafco Worldwide LLC. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy Notice Another Design by: LDR Design Agency Home MagnaSweet® Toggle child menu Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Our Locations FAQ Request a Sample Call Us ×


 
https://mafco.com/news/swe-089-demo-is-delicious
https://mafco.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/09/NYCU-MagnaSweet-Sugar-Reduction-Solution-8-9-22-new.pdf



 
https://mafco.com/news/swe-089-demo-is-delicious
MagnaSweet® SwE-089 - Mafco Worldwide Press Alt+1 for screen-reader mode, Alt+0 to cancel Accessibility Screen-Reader Guide, Feedback, and Issue Reporting Skip to content Request a Sample Speak with an Expert Phone +1-856-964-8840 Location View Our Locations Home MagnaSweet® Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Phone +1-856-964-8840 Toggle Menu MagnaSweet® SwE-089 By Mafco – September 14, 2022 Home \- News You Can Use \- MagnaSweet® SwE-089 Highly Cost-Effective Sugar Reduction Solutions Without Compromising Taste is Simple with MagnaSweet®. Our industry-leading taste and mouthfeel solutions are customizable, cost-efficient, and highly effective in reducing sugar naturally. Sugar provides multi-functionality in foods and beverages beyond sweetness, including bulk and mouthfeel. MagnaSweet® SwE-089 enhances the essential taste functionalities in low and no-sugar products while providing formulators with an effective and highly cost-efficient solution for reducing sugar. Cost Effective Enhances Sweetness Enriches Mouthfeel Improves Flavor Consumers Are Paying More Attention To The Sugar Content In Food And Drink. HEALTH CONCERNS 59% of US consumers who limit sugar intake do so due to future health concerns, 53% to lose weight, and 50% for current health concerns LOW SUGAR CONTENT 31% of UK consumers* shop for products with low sugar content LESS FREQUENTLY 33% of consumers in Brazil are eating sweets and desserts less frequently. Page 1 / 1 Zoom 100% Speak With an Expert Download the PDF Request a Sample Post navigation Previous Previous MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-006 Next Continue Magna-Brands™ Demo in Hard Lemon Tea Related Posts Tradeshow Event By Mafco September 15, 2023 January 11, 2024 News You Can Use Join Mafco Worldwide at Booth#3426 – SupplySide West 2023! We are thrilled to announce that Mafco Worldwide will again be a proud participant at SupplySide West, the premier ingredient event… Read More Tradeshow Event Continue Improve Mouthfeel on Low-Calorie Hard Seltzers By Mafco May 26, 2023 January 11, 2024 News You Can Use Mafco has clean-label solutions for making low-calorie hard seltzers taste great! MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-006 helps you build a richer-tasting texture to enhance the mouthfeel in products for more enjoyable experiences. Connect… Read More Improve Mouthfeel on Low-Calorie Hard Seltzers Continue Clean Label Whole Food Protein Shakes By Mafco April 30, 2023 January 11, 2024 News You Can Use Whole Food Compliant Products Mafco can now support your product development flavor challenges with Whole Foods compliant products. Mafco has groundbreaking, clean-label products that actually work. Our trademarked MagnaMouthFeel provides… Read More Clean Label Whole Food Protein Shakes Continue Let’s Craft Your Next Creation! Mafco’s MagnaSweet® lines of products are extraordinary and versatile masking agents, sweetness intensifiers and extenders, and flavor enhancers. They are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications. Please let us know how we can help with your next incredible creation! Start with a Sample MagnaSweet® General Inquiries Request a Quote FAQ General Inquiries Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Quote Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Sample Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Speak with an Expert Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Copyright © 2023 Mafco Worldwide LLC. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy Notice Another Design by: LDR Design Agency Home MagnaSweet® Toggle child menu Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Our Locations FAQ Request a Sample Call Us ×


 
https://mafco.com/news/hard-lemon-tea
https://mafco.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/NYCU-Magna-Brands-in-Lemon-Hard-Tea-11-21-22-new.pdf



 
https://mafco.com/news/hard-lemon-tea
Magna-Brands™ Demo in Hard Lemon Tea - Mafco Worldwide Skip to content Request a Sample Speak with an Expert Phone +1-856-964-8840 Location View Our Locations Home MagnaSweet® Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Phone +1-856-964-8840 Toggle Menu Magna-Brands™ Demo in Hard Lemon Tea By Mafco – February 11, 2023 Home \- News You Can Use \- Magna-Brands™ Demo in Hard Lemon Tea Magna-Brands™ Sweetness + Mouthfeel Enhancers are Perfect Partners for Low-Calorie Adult Beverages. Mintel Hard Beverage Insights Demonstrate: The Magna-Brands™ Demo in Hard Lemon Tea demonstrated that MagnaSweet SwE-063 functionalities enhance sweetness with a sucrose-like profile. Plus the MagnaMouthFeel ™ MMF-004 adds a syrupy mouthfeel reminiscent of full sugar. US Trends: important attributes when trying to make healthier alcohol choices, for drinkers aged 22-34. A 12 oz. serving of hard tea includes about 100 calories, about 2.5 g of sugar, and is in the 4.5% ABV range. Cheers to less sugar! Loading... Speak With an Expert Download the PDF Request a Sample Post navigation Previous Previous MagnaSweet® SwE-089 Next Continue MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-007 Related Posts MagnaBoost SE-014 Cheese By Mafco May 31, 2022 January 11, 2024 News You Can Use The results from our MagnaBoost Cheese Powder Demo are delicious. MagNaBoost™ SE-014 supports up to a 30% sodium reduction in cheese seasoning without sacricing taste. With MagNaBoost, formulators can create… Read More MagnaBoost SE-014 Cheese Continue MagnaSweet® SwE-089 By Mafco September 14, 2022 January 11, 2024 News You Can Use Highly Cost-Effective Sugar Reduction Solutions Without Compromising Taste is Simple with MagnaSweet®. Our industry-leading taste and mouthfeel solutions are customizable, cost-efficient, and highly effective in reducing sugar naturally. Sugar provides… Read More MagnaSweet® SwE-089 Continue Tradeshow Event By Mafco September 15, 2023 January 11, 2024 News You Can Use Join Mafco Worldwide at Booth#3426 – SupplySide West 2023! We are thrilled to announce that Mafco Worldwide will again be a proud participant at SupplySide West, the premier ingredient event… Read More Tradeshow Event Continue Let’s Craft Your Next Creation! Mafco’s MagnaSweet® lines of products are extraordinary and versatile masking agents, sweetness intensifiers and extenders, and flavor enhancers. They are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications. Please let us know how we can help with your next incredible creation! Start with a Sample MagnaSweet® General Inquiries Request a Quote FAQ General Inquiries Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Quote Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Sample Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Speak with an Expert Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Copyright © 2023 Mafco Worldwide LLC. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy Notice Another Design by: LDR Design Agency Home MagnaSweet® Toggle child menu Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Our Locations FAQ Request a Sample Call Us ×


 
https://mafco.com/news/magnamouthfeel
https://mafco.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/07/NYCU_MagnaMouthFeel_Sugar-Reduced_Juice_demo_7-10-22-new.pdf



 
https://mafco.com/news/magnamouthfeel
MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-006 - Mafco Worldwide Skip to content Request a Sample Speak with an Expert Phone +1-856-964-8840 Location View Our Locations Home MagnaSweet® Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Phone +1-856-964-8840 Toggle Menu MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-006 By Mafco – July 10, 2022 Home \- News You Can Use \- MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-006 Seeking Sugar Reduced Cran-Raspberry or Apple Juice Mouthfeel Improvements? MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-006 helps to recreate a fuller mouthfeel and an improved natural* sweet taste in sugar-free and low-sugar drinks comparable to full sugar. MagnaMouthFeel MMF-006 Demo: Sugar Reduced Cran-Raspberry or Apple Juice Say goodbye to flat and watery mouthfeel and hello to the improved flavor and overall taste. Sugar provides multi-functionality in beverages beyond sweetness, including bulk and mouthfeel. MagnaMouthFeel MMF-006 helps to recreate a fuller mouthfeel along with improving the overall flavor profile for a taste parity closer to full sugar in sugar-reduced juice beverages. Fuller Mouthfeel Enhances Sweetness Clean Label Improves Flavor *Depending on the function and/or usage level in the product, and can vary by country Page 1 / 1 Zoom 100% Speak With an Expert Download the PDF Request a Sample Post navigation Previous Previous MagnaBoost SE-014 Cheese Next Continue MagnaSweet® SwE-089 Related Posts Clean Label Whole Food Protein Shakes By Mafco April 30, 2023 January 11, 2024 News You Can Use Whole Food Compliant Products Mafco can now support your product development flavor challenges with Whole Foods compliant products. Mafco has groundbreaking, clean-label products that actually work. Our trademarked MagnaMouthFeel provides… Read More Clean Label Whole Food Protein Shakes Continue MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-007 By Mafco March 4, 2023 March 4, 2024 News You Can Use MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-007 helps to recreate a fuller mouthfeel and an improved natural* sweet taste in sugar-free and low sugar carbonated soft drinks comparable to full sugar. Sugar-free Lemon-Lime Flavored Carbonated… Read More MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-007 Continue Tradeshow Event By Mafco September 15, 2023 January 11, 2024 News You Can Use Join Mafco Worldwide at Booth#3426 – SupplySide West 2023! We are thrilled to announce that Mafco Worldwide will again be a proud participant at SupplySide West, the premier ingredient event… Read More Tradeshow Event Continue Let’s Craft Your Next Creation! Mafco’s MagnaSweet® lines of products are extraordinary and versatile masking agents, sweetness intensifiers and extenders, and flavor enhancers. They are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications. Please let us know how we can help with your next incredible creation! Start with a Sample MagnaSweet® General Inquiries Request a Quote FAQ General Inquiries Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Quote Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Sample Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Speak with an Expert Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Copyright © 2023 Mafco Worldwide LLC. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy Notice Another Design by: LDR Design Agency Home MagnaSweet® Toggle child menu Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Our Locations FAQ Request a Sample Call Us ×


 
https://mafco.com/news/magnamouthfeel/
MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-006 - Mafco Worldwide Skip to content Request a Sample Speak with an Expert Phone +1-856-964-8840 Location View Our Locations Home MagnaSweet® Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Phone +1-856-964-8840 Toggle Menu MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-006 By Mafco – July 10, 2022 Home \- News You Can Use \- MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-006 Seeking Sugar Reduced Cran-Raspberry or Apple Juice Mouthfeel Improvements? MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-006 helps to recreate a fuller mouthfeel and an improved natural* sweet taste in sugar-free and low-sugar drinks comparable to full sugar. MagnaMouthFeel MMF-006 Demo: Sugar Reduced Cran-Raspberry or Apple Juice Say goodbye to flat and watery mouthfeel and hello to the improved flavor and overall taste. Sugar provides multi-functionality in beverages beyond sweetness, including bulk and mouthfeel. MagnaMouthFeel MMF-006 helps to recreate a fuller mouthfeel along with improving the overall flavor profile for a taste parity closer to full sugar in sugar-reduced juice beverages. Fuller Mouthfeel Enhances Sweetness Clean Label Improves Flavor *Depending on the function and/or usage level in the product, and can vary by country Loading... Speak With an Expert Download the PDF Request a Sample Post navigation Previous Previous MagnaBoost SE-014 Cheese Next Continue MagnaSweet® SwE-089 Related Posts Clean Label Whole Food Protein Shakes By Mafco April 30, 2023 January 11, 2024 News You Can Use Whole Food Compliant Products Mafco can now support your product development flavor challenges with Whole Foods compliant products. Mafco has groundbreaking, clean-label products that actually work. Our trademarked MagnaMouthFeel provides… Read More Clean Label Whole Food Protein Shakes Continue MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-007 By Mafco March 4, 2023 March 4, 2024 News You Can Use MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-007 helps to recreate a fuller mouthfeel and an improved natural* sweet taste in sugar-free and low sugar carbonated soft drinks comparable to full sugar. Sugar-free Lemon-Lime Flavored Carbonated… Read More MagnaMouthFeel™ MMF-007 Continue Tradeshow Event By Mafco September 15, 2023 January 11, 2024 News You Can Use Join Mafco Worldwide at Booth#3426 – SupplySide West 2023! We are thrilled to announce that Mafco Worldwide will again be a proud participant at SupplySide West, the premier ingredient event… Read More Tradeshow Event Continue Let’s Craft Your Next Creation! Mafco’s MagnaSweet® lines of products are extraordinary and versatile masking agents, sweetness intensifiers and extenders, and flavor enhancers. They are multifunctional for solving consumer product development problems across a wide variety of applications. Please let us know how we can help with your next incredible creation! Start with a Sample MagnaSweet® General Inquiries Request a Quote FAQ General Inquiries Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Quote Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Request a Sample Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Speak with an Expert Please enable JavaScript in your browser to submit the form Copyright © 2023 Mafco Worldwide LLC. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy Notice Another Design by: LDR Design Agency Home MagnaSweet® Toggle child menu Expand Sweetness Flavor Modulation Bitter Flavor Modulation Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Flavor Masking Protein Flavor Masking Salt Flavor Modulation Mouthfeel Modulation Product Portfolio Pure Derivatives of Glycyrrhiza About Mafco News Our Locations FAQ Request a Sample Call Us ×

