
 
https://clinchoice.com
ClinChoice: Full-Service CRO Partner This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources ClinChoice Acquires CSI Medical Research, Expanding its Global Presence Learn More About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Your Full Service Clinical CRO Partner Pharma | Biotech | Med Device | Cosmetics | Consumer Healthcare Learn More Services for the Full Development Lifecycle Accelerating drug and device approvals to market for more than 25 years. Our Solutions Bringing Excellence to Enterprise-Wide Programs and Single-Site Studies Comprehensive Solutions Learn More Broad Therapeutic Expertise Learn More Industry Insights & News Learn More Why Companies of All Sizes Trust Us Record of Quality Flexible Approach Dedicated People Fast Timelines Broad TA Expertise About Us Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/privacy-policy/
Privacy Policy | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Privacy Policy Effective November 20, 2020 This Privacy Policy describes how ClinChoice collects information through ClinChoice’s website that’s operated and controlled by ClinChoice. By providing personal information to ClinChoice and/or by using ClinChoice’s website, ClinChoice understands that the user agrees to the terms and conditions of this Privacy Policy, including ClinChoice’s Cookie Policy. Scope of Privacy Policy: ClinChoice is a global company. This Privacy Policy applies to ClinChoice, including its affiliates and subsidiaries. ClinChoice collects, uses, and retains information through ClinChoice’s website or from other sources that are operated and controlled by ClinChoice. By providing personal information to ClinChoice and/or by using ClinChoice’s website, ClinChoice understands that the user agrees to the terms and conditions of this Privacy Policy. Cookie Policy: Cookies are pieces of information stored on the user’s computer which allows us to collect information such as MAC address, computer type, operating system details, Internet browser type, time spent on ClinChoice’s website, pages visited, and language preferences. Information ClinChoice collects is used to facilitate navigation, to display information effectively, and to personalize user’s experience on ClinChoice’s website. ClinChoice uses cookies for session continuity and to gather information about ClinChoice’s website usage to continually improve its design and functionality, understand how it is used by individuals, and to assist with resolving questions regarding it. Users may refuse to accept these cookies by following your browser’s instructions; however, if cookies are not accepted, some features may not be available, and it may cause some inconvenience in the use of ClinChoice’s website. IP Address: Whenever a user visits ClinChoice’s website, the IP Address is identified and logged automatically in ClinChoice’s server along with the time of the visit and the pages that were visited. IP Addresses are used for helping diagnose server problems and administering the website. Collection of Information: ClinChoice collects information on the following pages, on ClinChoice’s website: Careers Request for Information / Request for Proposal Contact Us Subscribe for Newsletter The above pages request submission of personal information to provide benefit from the specified features (such as newsletter subscriptions, careers) or to participate in an activity (such as Request for information). The pages shall capture what information is required and what information is optional. Use and Disclosure of Collected Information: Information collected on ClinChoice’s website is used as described at the point of collection. ClinChoice uses the information collected to respond to the requested information and inquiries. When working with regulatory authorities and local law enforcement agencies, we may use or disclose personal information to fulfill regulatory or legal obligations. Providing your personal information to ClinChoice is voluntary and you may refuse to provide any personal information. If there’s no personal information provided to ClinChoice, we may not be able to communicate with you to provide any information on our products and services. If we have collected your consent to process your personal information, you may withdraw the consent by contacting us at data.protection@clinchoice.com . ClinChoice does not disclose the information collected to any third party. ClinChoice does not request any sensitive personal information (e.g., information related to racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religion or other beliefs, health, criminal background, or trade union membership) on or through ClinChoice’s website. In those cases where it may be requested, it shall be done through the informed consent of the data subject. Security: Organizational, technical, and administrative measures have been implemented to protect all personal information under ClinChoice’s control. If there is any reason to believe that personal information has been compromised, ClinChoice requests them to inform immediately by sending an email to data.protection@clinchoice.com or submit a complaint. Your Rights: All individuals or data subjects shall have the right to request to access their personal data as applicable. If any personal information submitted to ClinChoice, including its affiliates and subsidiaries, needs to be restricted, reviewed, corrected, updated, or deleted, such requests shall be sent to ClinChoice at data.protection@clinchoice.com . All requests shall comply as soon as possible based on the applicable laws and regulations. ClinChoice may place any data on legal hold and promptly notify the individuals to fulfill legal obligations. ClinChoice provides all individuals a means to choose how we may use the information collected and may opt-out of our services at any time. All individuals have the option to opt-out of our newsletters, email subscriptions, and any information provided by ClinChoice. If at any time, any individuals may request ClinChoice to change the provided information or inform ClinChoice to limit the sharing of the provided information with any third parties. Such requests shall be submitted to ClinChoice at data.protection@clinchoice.com . All requests shall comply as soon as possible or within 30 calendar days. Submit a Complaint: ClinChoice is committed to complying with privacy regulations and best practices. If you need to submit a complaint concerning ClinChoice’s data privacy matters, submit your concern by email, telephone, or mail to the ClinChoice Data Protection team who will promptly process, investigate, and resolve all issues. The contact information is listed below. Attn: Data Protection Officer 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone: (215) 283-6035 Email: data.protection@clinchoice.com Use of Site by Minors: ClinChoice’s website is not intended for use by individuals under the age of 18. ClinChoice requests all users under the age of 18 to not submit any personal information on ClinChoice’s website. Retention Period: ClinChoice retains the collected personal information for the period necessary to fulfill the purposes outlined in this Privacy Policy unless a longer retention period is required or allowed by law or to otherwise fulfill a legal obligation. Cross-border Transfer: Personal information collected on ClinChoice’s website may be stored and processed in any country out of which ClinChoice operates; ClinChoice shall process the collected information securely in compliance with the regional requirements as applicable. By providing consent on ClinChoice’s website, ClinChoice understands that transfer of information to countries outside the country of residence, including to the United States, is accepted by the user. In cases of onward transfers to third parties of individuals’ data by ClinChoice, ClinChoice will be liable and responsible for data handling. Updates to this Privacy Policy: This Privacy Policy shall be reviewed periodically and updated as needed by ClinChoice. Any changes to this Privacy Policy will become effective once it is posted onto the website. Republic of the Philippines National Privacy Commission – Certificate of Registration As ClinChoice’s continuous commitment to data privacy, the company has duly complied with the registration and requirement of the Republic Act 10173 – Data Privacy Act of 2012, Philippines, its implementing rules and regulations and all related issuances. Contacting ClinChoice: If the users have any questions about this Privacy Policy, contact us on the “Contact Us” page or email us at data.protection@clinchoice.com . Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/about/
About | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » About About ClinChoice ClinChoice is a leading full-service clinical CRO offering high-quality solutions to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device and consumer products clients. We contribute to a safer and better world by helping our sponsor clients accelerate drug and device approvals to market. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated teams who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Our commitment to the highest quality standards, flexibility, and timeline fulfillment has earned us and our clients consistent results. We provide services for the full development lifecycle to a wide range of clients, large and small, including six of the top 10 pharmaceutical companies, as well as small to midsize biotechnology companies. For us, our record of quality means consistency, accuracy and reliability. For you, it means a reliable partner and quality results. Our Mission To contribute to a healthier and safer world by accelerating the development and commercialization of innovative drugs and devices. Markets We Serve Pharmaceutical Biotechnology Medical Device Consumer Healthcare Cosmetics Why ClinChoice? ClinChoice offers a unique combination of high-quality solutions, flexibility, customization, and customer service that is rarely seen in the CRO industry. Over our 25 year history, we have developed robust SOPs designed to ensure high-quality service deliverables to each of our clients. Our quality-first approach, combined with our incredible team of industry experts allows us to offer a CRO/sponsor relationship that is unparalleled. Proven Record of Quality & Results Expertise in 30+ Therapeutic Areas Flexible Approach & Agile Solutions Rapid Project Startup & Timelines Dedicated Team from Start to Finish Meet Our Leadership Team Proven Record of Quality & Results Expertise in 30+ Therapeutic Areas Flexible Approach & Agile Solutions Rapid Project Startup & Timelines Dedicated Team from Start to Finish What You Can Expect From Us Flexible approach for a superior ease of doing business ClinChoice is known in the industry for our flexible approach and ease of doing business that has resulted in decade-long client relationships. Whether for an enterprise-wide global program or single-site study, our clients know they will be provided customized solutions and not a rigid one-size-fits-all model. Our approach is tailored to you and your program: Need to ramp up or down? No problem. Have a last-minute request or change to your trial plan? We’re flexible. In an industry as fast-moving as ours, we built our business, solutions, and technology to be agile, with your needs at the center. Global methodology for rapid startup and fast timelines ClinChoice accelerates drug and medical device approvals to market by deploying a unique global methodology that enables us to rapidly start projects and fulfill fast timelines. We provide localized CRO services through a global network that assists in trials and post-approval activity across the Americas, Europe, Asia, and North Africa. This methodology equips us with the resources and delivery centers necessary to quickly coordinate and deploy teams who have the capacity to consistently work on your project. It’s the way we meet aggressive timelines without compromising quality. Talented team dedicated to your success from start to finish ClinChoice is a global company with more than 4,000 dedicated professionals committed to your success. Experienced and with outstanding academic credentials, our team is the one you want working on your study, no matter how large or small. In our industry where turnover is high, we’re proud to have built a company and culture where our people advance, thrive, and stay. Our low turnover rates translate into a more experienced team, consistent quality, and dedicated project management that will support the details and big picture of your study from start to finish. Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/about/leadership/
Leadership | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » About » Leadership Leadership Meet Our Team Ling Zhen Board Chairman, Global CEO Ling Zhen Board Chairman, Global CEO Currently Ling serves as the global Chairman and CEO of ClinChoice, a global full-service CRO with over 1800 clinical research professionals in more than 50 cities and 7 countries around the world. Previously, Ling was a partner at the Draper Dragon Venture Group (a member of the Draper Venture Network), focusing on the investment and management of life science and healthcare companies in China and the US. Earlier, Ling had spent 12 years in Quintiles (the largest clinical CRO in the world and later merged with IMS Health to form the world leading human data science company called IQVIA), where he served as a global Senior Vice President and the General Manager in Greater China (including China, Hong Kong and Taiwan), to oversee clinical operation, data and consulting service in the region. Prior to Quintiles, Ling also served as a management consultant in the Life Science Strategy Group of Ernst & Young in the US, where he advised leading pharmaceutical and biotech companies on mission-critical strategic and operational issues. In addition, Ling held various leadership positions in Business Development and Portfolio Management in some of the world-leading life science companies such as Eli Lilly and GlaxoSmithKline in the US. Ling received his Bachelor of Science degree from the University of Science and Technology of China ， his Master of Science degree in biochemistry and Master of Business Administration degree from Indiana University at Bloomington in the US. Ling also holds a Juris Doctor degree from the Law School of North Carolina Central University and is a licensed attorney in the state of North Carolina in the US. Dr. Xin Ke Board Director, Co-Founder, Chairman of ClinChoice Inc. Dr. Xin Ke Board Director, Co-Founder, Chairman of ClinChoice Inc. Xin Ke, PhD, is the Chairman and Co-founder of ClinChoice Inc. Dr. Ke has over 20 years of experience in the pharmaceutical industry, with a focus on data management and statistical programming. Since 1992, he has worked for several global pharmaceutical companies, including Novartis, Johnson & Johnson, and Merck, as a senior statistical analyst. In 1995, he founded K&L Consulting Services, Inc. (K&L), which provides niche contract research organization (CRO) services to global pharmaceutical and biotech companies in the areas of data management, biostatistics, biostatistical programming, CDISC/SDTM/ADaM standardization and conversion, and medical writing. In 2014, K&L merged with Fountain Medical Development, Ltd. (FMD, China), to become FMD K&L. In 2016, FMD K&L merged with iMEDGlobal, further expanding services and global geographic presence. Since founding K&L, Dr. Ke has acted as a project team lead for several pharmaceutical companies, supporting 15 US NDA filings. The filings were well accepted by FDA and 11 have been approved for marketing. Dr. Ke received his PhD from Rutgers University and BS in Applied Mathematics from Tsinghua University, China. Dr. John D. Balian, MD Board Director, Co-Founder, CEO of ClinChoice Inc. Dr. John D. Balian, MD Board Director, Co-Founder, CEO of ClinChoice Inc. John D. Balian, MD, is the Chief Executive Officer of ClinChoice Inc. In February 2016, he founded the consulting firm MediVista, focusing on development of healthcare and IT companies and transformative technologies. Previously, he was a senior executive at Johnson & Johnson, where he served as Chief Medical Officer of the Johnson & Johnson Family of Consumer Companies, leading Medical, Clinical, Regulatory, Medical Safety, Toxicology, and related functions. In April 2014, Regional R&D was added to his remit and his title became Chief R&D Operations Officer. Dr. Balian joined Johnson & Johnson from Pfizer Inc, where he was Senior Vice President, Worldwide Safety & Regulatory Operations. He led efforts to capitalize on the immense data streams Pfizer collects to gain new insights into patient needs and find new opportunities to serve them better. He launched and successfully executed a complete transformation of the organization’s structure, practices and strategies to address performance and regulatory challenges facing the company. In 10 years at Pfizer, Dr. Balian held numerous leadership positions, originally joining as an Associate Director in Drug Safety before soon becoming Vice President and Global Head for Clinical Safety and Risk Management. In 2003, he was appointed VP in Development Operations, leading a multi-functional organization responsible for Pfizer’s sourcing strategies, capacity planning, clinical trials conduct and allocation, patient recruitment, performance measures and business/operational support for all clinical trials. He also served at Bristol-Myers Squibb, leading the Global Pharmacovigilance & Epidemiology group and a Medical Affairs group focusing on mature brands. Among the many innovative methodologies he introduced was a BMS global operations center for pharmacovigilance in Chennai, India, an industry first. Previously, Dr. Balian worked for the U.S. Food & Drug Administration, first as a Medical Reviewer for neuropharmacology products, and then as an Associate Director in the Office of Clinical Pharmacology and Biopharmaceutics. Widely published in scientific journals, he is also a published novelist. He earned his B.A. degree from Columbia University and his M.D. degree from Tufts University School of Medicine. Oriana Zerbini, MD Founder, CEO of CROMSOURCE a ClinChoice Company Oriana Zerbini, MD Founder, CEO of CROMSOURCE a ClinChoice Company Oriana Zerbini, MD, is the CEO of CROMSOURCE, the international CRO acquired by ClinChoice on 1 st March 2023. Dr. Zerbini worked for more than ten years at GSK where she contributed to the worldwide development of one of its blockbuster products, leading clinical research programs at national and international level. On 15 th July 1997 she founded CROM with Headquarters in Italy, and shortly afterwards expanded into Central and Eastern Europe, becoming one of the first CROs to be active in that region. Stability, integrity, high quality services and a high level of customer satisfaction contributed to the global development of the company across Europe and the United States. In fact, in April 2011, Dr. Zerbini acquired Msource (a medium-sized, European CRO with an established presence throughout Western Europe, both in clinical research and clinical resourcing/staffing). The company rebranded as CROMSOURCE, offering clients a truly comprehensive in-house service portfolio. Then in May 2012 she acquired Pleiad Inc to add further presence in the US and formally established the US headquarters. On the technological side of the business, in 2009 she founded Techorizon, as a spin-off of the IT department of CROMSOURCE. Dr. Zerbini also managed the development and operations of a European Phase I unit for nearly 10 years. Oriana leads the company working side by side with the business development and the operations teams offering her strong experience in the development of products for the life sciences industry. She is always available for her employees and clients alike. It is common practice for the clients to be able to reach out Oriana when they need to. She is truly passionate about the work that the Company does and enjoys taking a hands-on approach to helping clients with their projects. Dr. Oriana Zerbini MD specialized in Cardiology, Pharmacology and in Tropical Medicine and Hygiene from Padua University, Modena University and the University of London. She also received a Master degree in Communication Skills from Bocconi University in Milan. Dr. Tiepu Liu President of Global Biometrics Dr. Tiepu Liu President of Global Biometrics Tiepu Liu, MD, PhD, is President of Global Biometrics at ClinChoice. He plans goals and strategies and manages organizational structure and operational standards and process. He leads experienced clinical development teams specialized in data management, biostatistics, and programming to provide high quality and timely services to global biopharmaceutical clients. Dr. Liu served as a Biostatistician and Epidemiologist at the UAB Comprehensive Cancer Center and led a Biostatistics and Epidemiology group at the University of Cincinnati. In his industry career, he has served as Director of Biostatistics at PPD, Executive Director of Statistics and Data Management at UBC, and Senior Director of Biostatistics at Graceway Pharmaceuticals and The Medicines Company. Dr. Liu has published over 100 scientific papers. He has worked with numerous Data Monitoring Committees (DMCs) in various capacities, including serving as a voting statistician member and coordinating and presenting frequently to DMCs. Dr. Liu has led numerous clinical development programs in various therapeutic areas. He served as core lead in gaining global approval and successful commercialization of Arestin (minocycline), Zyclara (imiquimod), and Kengreal (cangrelor) interacting with various regulatory agencies, including FDA, EMA, PMDA, and NMPA. Dr. Liu received his doctoral degree in Biostatistics and Epidemiology from the University of Alabama at Birmingham (UAB) after completing Medical and Public Health training at Tongji Medical University, China. Mahesh Mudnur President of APAC (excl. China/Japan) Mahesh Mudnur President of APAC (excl. China/Japan) A co-founder of iMEDGlobal (a ClinChoice Company), Mahesh has more than 27 years of industry experience including 14 years of designing and implementing global software solutions in the healthcare and pharmaceutical domains. His most recent experience includes tenures as CEO iMEDGlobal Inc – a KPO company providing services in the life sciences space. He was instrumental in taking the company from inception to a 500+ member strong company. He was also the Global Head, Product Development at ArisGlobal, India, and Engineering Manager at WYSE, India. He has also worked as a consultant, with DSA to help develop its IT service offering for the life sciences industry and worked on the Triage XML Intake system. Prior to the Life Sciences space, Mahesh has worked extensively in the Banking and Enterprise domain designing and developing solutions. Mahesh has a bachelor’s degree in Instrumentation Engineering from Bangalore University, India Yuguang Zhao SVP, Global Programming and Development Yuguang Zhao SVP, Global Programming and Development Yuguang Zhao is the Senior Vice President of Global Programming and Development. Mr. Zhao provides scientific direction, strategic planning, and resource arrangement for statistical programming development and support on all projects, ensures high quality and timely delivering. Mr. Zhao has over 24 years of experiences in providing statistical programming for Phase I through Phase IV clinical trial studies in the pharmaceutical industry. Prior to joining ClinChoice, Mr. Zhao was Director of Global Statistical Analysis at Eisai Pharmaceuticals, and served as Programming Therapeutic Area Head for Oncology at Sanofi. In these roles, he led multidisciplinary teams and worked on numerous regulatory submissions such as NDAs/sNDAs. Mr. Zhao has co‐led the CDISC/FDA data integration pilot, and has been a key contributor in the industry standardization efforts through his participation in CDISC SDS and ADaM working groups. Mr. Zhao earned his MS from the University of Nevada and his BS from Inner Mongolia National University, China. Lee King SVP, Business Development and Marketing Lee King SVP, Business Development and Marketing Lee King is the SVP of Business Development and Marketing at ClinChoice Inc. In this role, Mr. King is responsible for overseeing Business Development, Marketing, and Proposal Development groups. Mr. King has more than 25 years of experience in clinical research encompassing all phases of development and commercialization in drugs, vaccines, and medical devices. Before joining ClinChoice, Mr. King was the Global Head of Business Development and Strategy at CPi Global CRO. He also served as the Global Head of Peri/Post Approval and Clinical Outcomes Assessments at ICON. Prior to ICON, Mr. King held various senior roles at PPD, both in Hematology/Oncology and Late Phase Development. His strong portfolio of business development and therapeutic experiences enables him to help sponsors with their strategic development planning, commercialization, and resource optimization. Mr. King has a BA from The University of North Carolina at Wilmington, a master’s degree in education from East Carolina University, and a professional certificate in international business from University College Dublin. Lei Lu VP, Business Operations Lei Lu VP, Business Operations Lei Lu, MS, MBA, is the Vice President of Business Operations at ClinChoice Inc. She provides leadership for strategies and processes and oversees activities in business operations, including contract, legal, human resources, and day-to-day administration. Ms. Lu has over 28 years of combined experience in the biotechnology, pharmaceutical, and CRO industries. Prior to joining ClinChoice, she worked at Merck for 20 years in diverse areas ranging from quality to RR&D to global business procurement. Her broad experience allows her to provide oversight of business operations and think strategically with her deep understanding of the technical and business aspects of the pharmaceutical industry. Ms. Lu has an MBA in finance from Temple University, an MS in Organic Chemistry from Texas Women’s University, and a BS in Chemistry from Sichuan University in China. Nadia Di Matteo Head of Legal Affairs Nadia Di Matteo Head of Legal Affairs Nadia Di Matteo is the Global Head of the Legal Affairs Department. She is responsible for advising ClinChoice on all legal matters by selecting the most appropriate solutions for the company according to local and international laws collaborating with external legal counsels. Together with her international team, and interacting with appropriate business, financial and other internal functions, Nadia manages the negotiation and finalization of contractual terms with customers and suppliers and supports the operational teams on any legal matters if necessary. She is also responsible for managing all legal aspects relating to the ClinChoice personnel, staffing services and freelancers. Nadia Di Matteo brings twenty years of experience in the field of clinical research. She worked for almost five years in an Italian Investigational Site as head of legal affairs. Then in 2008 she started her career in CROMSOURCE, an international CRO, where she initially dealt with the negotiation and finalization of contracts with customers and suppliers and then, after about three years, she was promoted to Director of the Legal Affairs Department. Nadia graduated in Law at the University of Teramo (Italy) and she is licensed as an Italian lawyer. Dr. Vanita Srinivasan VP, Global Safety and Medical Affairs Dr. Vanita Srinivasan VP, Global Safety and Medical Affairs Dr. Vanita Srinivasan is the Vice President, Global Safety and Medical Affairs at ClinChoice. She has over 18 years of healthcare experience supporting pharmaceutical, medical device, and consumer healthcare innovators. At ClinChoice, Dr. Srinivasan manages operations across all the delivery centers, leading teams for several large-, mid-, and small-sized clients. Under her leadership, we seamlessly deliver on-time, quality solutions for all our clients. Dr. Vanita has helped pharmaceutical clients manage their clinical and post-marketing safety initiatives during her time in Accenture and IQVIA. She leverages her hands-on experience as a physician, medical writer, and Delivery Head for large case processing operations to give direction for ClinChoice’s growth. As a safety subject matter expert, Dr. Vanita designs solutions for pharmacovigilance and device safety and consults to set up global safety operations. Her expertise and leadership style has led to several collaborative engagements with our clients. She holds a medical degree, is a post-graduate in Clinical Research from Cranfield University, and has an MBA from XLRI. She is a CQI IRCA certified ISO 9001:2015 Lead Auditor and trained on Implementation of MDR (BSI). Jayme Calhoun Vice President, Regulatory Affairs Jayme Calhoun Vice President, Regulatory Affairs Jayme Calhoun is the Vice President of Regulatory Affairs for ClinChoice. In this role she oversees ClinChoice’s International Regulatory Centers of Excellence to deliver comprehensive regulatory support to clients. Jayme has over 20 years of industry experience spanning from Novel Drugs to Consumer products, with a focus on Medical Device regulations. Previously, Jayme was Vice President of Regulatory Affairs at a start-up biotechnology company where she created and grew a new regulatory department for initial applications and market expansion of devices, combination products, drugs, and consumer products. Prior to that, she was a Project Manager for a tissue based BLA project overseeing the timely completion of cGMP upgrades and Phase III clinical trials. Earlier, Jayme spent 8 years with Surgical Specialties in Quality and Regulatory roles overseeing corporate regulatory and quality goals for 3 manufacturing facilities, and acting as a regulatory liaison for FDA, Notified Bodies, and PMDA audits. Her prior experience includes roles at Medtronic and GlaxoSmithKline. In addition to serving as a management representative for multiple Heath Authority audits, she has experience supporting international registrations, authoring FDA, Health Canada, and EU submissions, and is respected for her ability to work with regulators from both a quality and regulatory aspect. Jayme received her Bachelor degree in Chemistry from Connecticut College and her Master of Business Administration degree from the University of Florida. Jayme holds a RAC certification in Medical Devices. Dr. Seda Aghabekyan Head of Clinical Operations and Safety, Armenia Dr. Seda Aghabekyan Head of Clinical Operations and Safety, Armenia Dr. Seda Aghabekyan is the Head of Clinical Operations and Safety, Armenia. Since 2015, Seda has worked in the ClinChoice Armenia delivery center, contributing to clinical development strategy, medical affairs, and safety projects, providing medical safety oversight and consultation for medical scientific research and literature surveillance projects. Building, coordinating, leading teams, Dr. Aghabekyan enhances operations in a globally dispersed team environment with cross-cultural partners by developing professional relationships and communicating with industry leaders. Dr. Seda Aghabekyan, MD, MPH, is a Research Physician with 11 years of clinical development experience, including six years of global medical and clinical leadership experience. Seda graduated from Yerevan State Medical University with an MD Physician and Radiologist specialization. Her Master of Public Health Degree was completed at the American University of Armenia, Turpanjian School of Public Health (SPH). Zaruhi Tovmasyan Head of Regulatory Affairs, Armenia Zaruhi Tovmasyan Head of Regulatory Affairs, Armenia Zaruhi Tovmasyan, M.Sc. Biology, is the Head of Regulatory Affairs of Armenia unit since 2016. Zaruhi has more than 12 years of experience in regulatory affairs and has spent several years working as the local pharmacovigilance contact. Zaruhi has been involved in different projects related to other areas of drug and medical device circulation such as importation and distribution of drugs, medical devices, cosmetics, medical writing, protection of intellectual property, registration of trademarks, implementation of good distribution practice, site preparation for external and internal audits, as well as for inspection by regulatory authorities. Zaruhi has led numerous projects in Armenia and other CIS countries, including Georgia. She has extensive experience working with various divisions of health authorities of the countries mentioned above. Zaruhi has been an active member in several professional groups for many years, focusing on technical, CMC, quality, and regulatory topics. She earned her master’s degree in biology from Yerevan State University. Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/about/partnerships/
Partnerships | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » About » Partnerships Partnerships ClinChoice partners with a variety of technology solutions providers, platforms, and organizations to provide industry-leading services that help you meet the needs of any study, trial, or research project. Our advanced data management, regulatory compliance, pharmacovigilance, and highly scalable scientific and statistical computing capabilities enable you to streamline your workflow for better results. Anju ClinChoice has over ten years’ experience designing and managing Phase I-IV clinical trials with Anju’s EDC solution, TrialMaster. This intuitive, feature-rich electronic data capture suite allows us to provide cost-efficient and adaptable solutions that scale with our customers. Anju is a customer-first organization providing adaptable life science solutions for clinical research, medical affairs, and data science. TrialMaster, IRMS MAX, and TA Scan, the company’s flagship products, reduce complexities in the drug and device discovery and commercialization process allowing our customers to enhance the quality of their patients’ lives. Calyx ClinChoice selected Calyx as a partner in Medical Imaging, EDC, and IRT due to their tenured scientific, medical, and technical teams who possess depth and diversity of experience to provide high quality data outcomes. Calyx’s tech enabled services wrap into ClinChoice’s full Phase I-IV CRO solutions to provide a comprehensive and seamless experience for you. And they’re embedded in projects around the world—from North America and Europe to India and Asia Pacific. Since 1997, Calyx has helped global biopharmaceutical companies and successfully leverage medical imaging in their clinical trials. Calyx offers the full range of imaging services to enable transparent and standardized processes and deliver therapeutically-aligned value that allows you to best assess the safety, efficacy, and effectiveness of your compounds. With a global infrastructure, advanced technology, and a reputation of reliability, a connected Calyx & ClinChoice take your trials further, faster. Medidata Services Partner Through this world‐class partnership, we provide services leveraging Medidata’s innovative solutions to optimize sponsors’ clinical trials. ClinChoice offers comprehensive clinical trial design in conjunction with Medidata Rave EDC implementation services, so that sponsors can expect a faster start for clinical trials, efficient cleaning of clinical trial data, and faster lock of the clinical database with better clinical data quality. Oracle Health Sciences Business Partner ClinChoice is certified in Oracle InForm, an integrated electronic data capture and management platform that reduces clinical trial timelines, cost, and risk through advanced data capture and query management, real-time actionable visibility to data and standards-based, integrated workflows. ClinChoice is also certified in Oracle Argus, a comprehensive pharmacovigilance platform enabling manufacturers to make faster and better safety decisions, optimize global compliance, and easily integrate risk management. Unlike solutions requiring heavy customization, Oracle Argus provides deep and integrated safety functionality out-of-the-box that scales to millions of cases and easily aligns with your safety and business processes. OpenClinica Partner for Price-Sensitive Sponsors ClinChoice chose the OpenClinica EDC platform to create flexible software built on open standards and architectures and provide an alternative to some of the higher priced EDC platforms on the market today. Our partnership with OpenClinica, using their Enterprise Edition, empowers us to rapidly deploy intuitive and highly capable data capture solutions in support of our trial Sponsors’ high-quality clinical data needs. SAS Institute Partner Since ClinChoice was founded, we’ve been using SAS software. Along with its easy-to-learn, flexible programming language, our programmers can deploy “ready-to-use” programs for data manipulation, information storage and retrieval, descriptive statistics and reporting, a centralized metadata repository, and a macro facility to reduce programming time and maintenance headaches, all within a multithreaded, scalable, and high-performance environment. This translates to less money and time for your project. Veeva ClinChoice is certified in Veeva Vault EDC. Vault EDC provides a fast and intuitive interface for capturing and reviewing data from sites. Eliminate constraints and run the trial you want with a modern EDC system. Vault EDC also allows for accelerated study cycle times, deploying studies in weeks not months. CDISC Gold Member & Registered Solution Partner Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/about/our-seg-dei-commitment/
https://clinchoice.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/Staff-Augmentation-Case-Study.pdf
Formerly FMD K&L Implementing FSP  Staff Augmentation  for a Pharma ClientCASE STUDY2 Managing a large team can be challenging. A sudden change of team size, whether it’s a scale-up or  scale-down, can present serious questions on how to digest the off-boarding resources in a downsize  situation or how to ramp up resources quickly in the case of a scale-up. This requires management  experience and constant, transparent communication between the sponsor and our management team. The ClinChoice ProcessHR Recruiting Support Dedicated Account Manager Team Structure and DesignPlanning, Communication, and EvaluationCollaboration with Our Clients RetentionFor one top-10 pharmaceutical company, we   provide a mixed model that includes the following: Staff augmentation  in biostatistics  and statistical  programming for their  existing in-house team.Dedicated FSP teams  working on specific  projects to build  efficiency in both  timelines and cost.Traditional large FSP  team that covers all  functional areas within  their organization.3 We keep our recruiting team updated on the lookout for programmers in general and some specialties,  knowing our clients’ profiles. We developed a database of specialty programmers we can access when  finding a solution for our clients. To better build our network in this regard, we opened new offices in  different global areas, established new collaborations with global partners, and teamed up with other  CROs to share resource information. A dedicated account manager is appointed to be the point of contact (POC) for the client. ClinChoice  account managers have long tenures in the pharmaceutical industry and extensive experience working  with clients in project- and non-project-related matters.HR Recruiting Support Dedicated Account Manager In this staff augmentation model, which includes different functional areas, team members regularly  communicate with their direct functional manager on the client side for project-related questions.   The ClinChoice account manager is available to address administrative questions.  For the dedicated team specializing in a specific type of assignment, a very experienced ClinChoice  project lead is assigned. The lead is responsible for addressing all technical questions and for escalating  issues to our account manager. A sub-lead supports the project lead for specific tasks. The sub-lead  focuses on details within a smaller team or particular program study to ensure all project requirements  are met. This structure has backup support built within each level to ensure there is no interruption of  service and allows us to scale up and down as it’s a pyramid and has a responsible member at each level.Team Structure and Design4Clear communication with our clients is essential and begins with a kick-off meeting for each project.  The discussion includes set agenda items, and minutes are generated for both parties to refer to  during future KPI assessments. We communicate clearly and proactively regarding client expectations,  what is needed and when, the scope, and deliverables, along with the issue escalation process. Team  communications are tracked through an issue log where both parties document their responses to any  issues. This document helps identify major decision changes or deviations. On an ongoing basis, KPIs  are assessed with an emphasis on quality and timeline and reviewed during regular steering committee  meetings and joint governance committee meetings. Retention is key to any successful FSP engagement as it enhances opportunities for productivity and  efficiency. In a staff augmentation engagement, efficiency can only be achieved through a dedicated,  knowledgeable team and lead who has a history with the client and understands the client’s protocols.  ClinChoice motivates our FSP employees through career advancement opportunities, competitive  benefits, and a culture of teamwork, integrating them into our company at every opportunity. Strong collaborative client relationships are crucial. ClinChoice establishes a flat engagement   structure to engage our clients at different levels of management with clearly defined expectations   and responsibilities. We monitor engagement closely, actively seek feedback and updates, recruit and  train new resources, and continuously optimize the process as needed. We constantly engage new  industry trends and initiatives to guide clients with innovative, proven solutions.Planning, Communication, and Evaluation Retention  Collaboration with Our Clientsclinchoice.com info@clinchoice.comAbout ClinChoice Inc ClinChoice is a global CRO dedicated to offering high-quality full clinical development  services to Biopharmaceutical, Vaccine, Medical Device, and Consumer Products  clients. These services include Clinical Operations, Project Management, Biostatistics,  Data Management, Pharmacovigilance, Cosmetovigilance, Device Safety, Medial  Affairs, Medical Writing, Regulatory Affairs, Toxicology, innovative and AI based  IT solutions and implementation, and other product development and registration  services. ClinChoice has development centers across the US, Canada, China, Europe,  India, Japan, and The Philippines with more than 2400 dedicated professionals.Managing a large staff augmentation team with many moving parts  can be complicated and challenging. Luckily, ClinChoice’s experienced  resource and management professionals have deep expertise in  staff augmentation. These professionals provide excellent daily team  management, conflict resolution, performance management, client  communication, and long-term planning.CONCLUSION


 
https://clinchoice.com/about/our-seg-dei-commitment/
https://clinchoice.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/Review-of-QA-on-regulations-for-Custom-made-Medical-Devices.pdf
REVIEW Questions And Answers  OnCustom -made Devices &  Considerations On Adaptable  Medical Devices And Patient - matched Medical DevicesContents INTRODUCTION PERSONALIZED MEDICAL DEVICES: DEFINITIONS AND CATEGORY OVERVIEW CONSIDERATIONS AND APPLICATION OF MDR T O CUSTOM MEDICAL DEVICES CONCLUSIONINTRODUCTION Rapid technological advancements, such as 3 -D printing, have made it possible for  manufacturers to produce personalized medical devices1much faster and on a commercial  scale. The European Medical Device Coordination Group (MDCG) recently issued a Q&A  document2to help address some of the key regulatory questions and clarify ambiguities  regarding custom -made devices (CMDs) defined in the new EU’s MDR3, and adaptable medical  devices and patient -matched medical devices described by the International Medical Device  Regulators Forum (IMDRF)4. PERSONALIZED MEDICAL DEVICES: DEFINITIONS AND CATEGORY OVERVIEW MDR Article 2(3) defines a CMD as any device specifically made per a written prescription of any  person authorized by national law by virtue of that person’s professional qualifications, which  gives, under that person’s responsibility, specific design characteristics, and is intended for the  sole use of a particular patient exclusively to meet their conditions and needs.5MDCG notes  that an authorized person does not have to be a healthcare professional, but any individual  qualified and authorized according to the Member State’s national law. It further clarifies that  the specific design characteristic in the written prescription contains particular information  regarding the design and measured data such as models, dental impressions, material selection  unique to the individual patient’s anatomic -physiological features, and pathological condition. According to MDR Article 2(3), any mass -produced devices adapted to meet the specific  requirements of any professional user and mass -produced devices utilizing industrial  manufacturing processes per the written prescriptions of any authorized person are not  considered CMDs. Since the MDR only provides a definition of CMDs and does not define any  other personalized medical devices that could be, for example, mass -produced, the IMDRF  identified and defined two additional categories of personalized devices: adaptable medical  devices and patient -matching medical devices, respectively. Unlike CMDs, these devices are  typically mass -produced or produced in batches and do not require a written prescription. The  Q&A document notes that the personalized medical devices that do not meet the definition of a  CMD must comply with all relevant sections of the MDR, including conformity assessment,  before placing on the market. 3Adaptable medical devices are intended to be adapted, adjusted, shaped, or assembled per  validated manufacturer’s instructions at the point of care (POC) to meet a patient’s anatomo - physiologic features before use, such as orthotic braces and hearing aids ( otoplastic and  amplifier)6. Per MDR Article 16(1), the individual, usually a healthcare professional, performing  these activities is not considered a manufacturer as long as these modifications do not change  the device’s intended purpose or affect its compliance with applicable requirements.  Patient -matched medical devices are intended to be matched to a patient’s anatomy within a  specified design envelope using techniques such as the scaling of the device based on anatomic  references or using the full anatomic features from patient imaging7. For example, 3D printed  implants from a template model, and DICOM files or contact lenses are made to order and  produced in batches.  As described in the Q&A document, in addition to MDR Annex XIII, CMD manufacturers should  ascertain and apply appropriate requirements of Annex I, implement a Quality Management  System (QMS) commensurate to the risk class of the device, and ensure compliance with all  aspects of Article 10(9). For implantable Class III CMDs, a QMS conformity assessment by a  notified body must be performed following either Annex IX Chapter I or Annex XI Part A.  Additionally, as per Annex XIII Section 2, the CMD manufacturers must establish procedures and  document post -market surveillance reports for Class I devices per Article 85 and Periodic Safety  Update Reports (PSURs) for Class IIa, IIb, and III devices per Article 86. However, CMDs are  exempt from UDI requirements, Summary of Safety and Clinical Performance (SSCP)  requirements, and registration of an appointed person responsible for regulatory compliance  (PRRC) in EUDAMED. Furthermore, the Q&A document clarifies when other devices, parts,  components, or materials specifically intended for the manufacture or use with CMDs may be CE  marked and what regulatory considerations for such “intermediate products” need to be  considered if placed on the market on their own.  MDCG encourages the application of CMD -related MDR requirements, such as risk  management, post -market surveillance, and clinical evaluation life cycle processes, to CMDs  grouped according to the same intended purpose, materials, and processes, same principal  design among other criteria rather than per each CMD. The International Medical Device  Regulators Forum (IMDRF) Personalized Medical Device –Regulatory Pathways8document  provides recommendations regarding regulatory pathways and considerations for applying  regulatory requirements for CMDs, adaptable medical devices, and patient -matched medical  devices. CONSIDERATIONS AND APPLICATION OF MDR T O CUSTOM MEDICAL DEVICES 4Even though the Q&A answers some of the key regulatory questions related to personalized  medical devices, the manufacturers should be prepared to address the inherent complexities of  device customizations and take into consideration all relevant regulatory requirements (e.g.,  intended purpose, risk class, manufacturing or design changes, manufacturing and use of  personalized medical devices with other CE and non -CE product, among other parameters) to  correctly categorize and classify their device, determine appropriate regulatory pathways, and  maintain regulatory compliance.  In summary, implementing the new MDR regulations and further clarification, including MCDG  documents for the manufacturers of personalized medical devices, may require additional  resources and personnel to ensure compliance with the new regulations and post -market  surveillance. Some of these may include: 1.Experienced regulatory intelligence consultants to interpret and apply the MDR, other  MDCG/IMDRF documents, and national laws 2.Liaisons to engage with Health Authorities or other regulatory agencies on behalf of clients  in the EU and other countries to assist clients in meeting regulatory, compliance, and  manufacturing/post -market laws 3.Robust medical device call center with experienced personnel capable of engaging with  relevant external stakeholders (including patients) to collect, document, and analyze  feedback regarding the devices’ quality, performance, and safety in the field 4.Compliant infrastructure for incident reporting and experienced authors of required reports  such as Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR) 5.Appointment of a person responsible for regulatory compliance as defined in the new MDRCONCLUSION 56REFERENCES 1,4,6,7 http://www.imdrf.org/docs/imdrf/final/technical/imdrf -tech -181018 -pmd -definitions -n49.pdf 2 https://ec.europa.eu/health/sites/default/files/md_sector/docs/mdcg_2021 -3_en.pdf 3,5 https://eur -lex.europa.eu/legal -content/EN/ALL/?uri=uriserv:OJ.L_.2017.117.01.0001.01.ENG 8 http://www.imdrf.org/docs/imdrf/final/technical/imdrf -tech -200318 -pmd -rp-n58.pdfABOUT THE AUTHOR Alma brings expertise in regulatory affairs and quality assurance, with over  fifteen years of experience related to medical devices regulations. She  specializes in developing and managing regulatory and quality strategies,  leading regulatory projects, and establishing new processes for  management of clinical trials, CSV and design controls.  ALMA RELJA RAC,CQIA ClinChoice is a global clinical stage Contract Research Organization (CRO),  with over 2000 clinical research professionals in seven different countries  across North America, Asia, and Europe. ClinChoice has been a leading  provider of contract research services offering high -quality solutions to  pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device and consumer products  customers for the past 26 years, working across a wide array of service  functions and therapeutic areas. Under its new brand, ClinChoice continues  to offer high -quality, full -service clinical development and commercial  solutions to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device, and consumer  product companies globally. For our partners, it means a reliable partner  and quality results.ABOUT US


 
https://clinchoice.com/about/our-seg-dei-commitment/
Our SEG/DEI Commitment - ClinChoice This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » About » Our SEG/DEI Commitment Our SEG/DEI Commitment Your download is now available Download June 21, 2023 | By ClinChoice ClinChoice is a globally recognized CRO that prides itself on superior solutions to meet the unique needs of our clients. And our commitment to Sustainability, Equity, Governance, Diversity, and Inclusion (SEG/DEI) is central to our business philosophy. It involves fostering an environment that promotes diverse perspectives, environmentally conscious practices, and responsible corporate governance. This holistic approach to our business drives innovative solutions and reflects our responsibility towards our stakeholders and the global health community. Diversity and Inclusivity: ClinChoice Inc., since its inception, has based its success on attracting, developing, and promoting talent guided by diversity and inclusivity. Our employees and partners come from very diverse backgrounds: gender, race, beliefs, and ethnicities. We recognize this is our strength and celebrate it. Sustainability: We strive to be faithful stewards of the environment. The company, as well as its employees, embrace sustainability through efficient and environmentally friendly use of energy sources and materials. Examples include renewable sources of energy, high-efficiency equipment, avoidance of disposable plastic and paper goods, efficient use of water, and discretionary use of transportation. Corporate Governance: our board and executive leadership is dedicated to fostering an environment of corporate responsibility for our communities, employees, contractors, clients, and suppliers. We are dedicated to the support of research and development, bringing new healthcare solutions to the patients, and vigilantly monitoring the safety and efficiency of the existing marketed products. We strive to maintain transparency and the highest ethical standards in everything we do. This case study shows a real-world example of ClinChoice implementing FSP... Download ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center - Expanding its North American... View Post This review explores questions and considerations around custom-made, adaptable... Download Want to be the first to know about new blogs and resources? Sign up for our mailing list. Please fill out this form to unlock your download Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/
Solutions | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions Solutions ClinChoice provides full-service Phase I-IV solutions that are designed from the ground up with efficient planning and execution that allows you to bring life-changing products to market faster. We consult with you at every step of the journey, leveraging our expertise and resources to help you advance your development programs. With a global network of medical professionals, eligible patients, and the right technology in place, ClinChoice enables you to carry out critical research and get people the treatments and therapies they need. Biometrics Learn how our comprehensive biometrics solutions ensure your clinical trial data is held to the highest quality standards at every stage of your study. Learn More Clinical Operations Get the right resources, experience, and site relationships to navigate the requirements, regulations, and best practices of clinical development. Learn More Technology Optimize your use of technology and related tools to optimize processes, make faster forward-thinking decisions, facilitate growth, and drive value for sponsors. Learn More Medical Affairs Get expert medical affairs solutions through a wide range of innovative and technology-driven services that build scientific and medical credibility and brand reputation. Learn More Drug Safety Avoid unexpected adverse regulatory and reporting changes. Product safety and risk management for pharmaceuticals, biopharmaceuticals, medical devices, and cosmetics. Learn More Medical Writing Get exceptional medical writers who help compile, organize, write, edit, and produce an array of medical and scientific documents. Learn More Regulatory Affairs We guide you through the dynamic medical regulatory environment, ensuring compliance, and get help anticipating new and revised regulations. Learn More Quality & Compliance Minimally intrusive quality, risk, and compliance solutions that instill confidence in your compliance and audit-readiness. Learn More Pharmacology & Toxicology Maintain strict compliance for your products under the ever-evolving global regulations for quality, safety, efficacy, and labeling. Learn More Scientific & Strategic Consulting Develop end-to-end approaches to global product development that integrate your clinical and commercial considerations. Learn More Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/biometrics/
Biometrics Solutions | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Biometrics Biometrics End-to-End Biometrics Trial Management ClinChoice is your complete source for comprehensive biometrics solutions designed to ensure your clinical trial data is held to the highest quality standards. Over the years, we’ve built a reputation as a preferred partner for our clients around the world by providing superior solutions that reduce complexities and speed up time to market for your products. With ClinChoice, You get more than just data analysis – you get a real, deep understanding of modern biometrics and the science of medicine. Biostatistics Our team of biostatisticians delivers end-to-end solutions with in-depth expertise in various therapeutic areas. We help pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and medical device sponsor companies navigate complex and dynamic processes from pre-clinical to drug approval. Learn More Statistical Programming Our highly flexible statistical programming solutions enhance your data management capabilities and ensure accuracy and efficiency in all phases of testing. Learn More Data Management Our customizable data management solutions are tailored to the unique needs of each client with end-to-end clinical data management activities, from eCRF development through database lock. Learn More CDISC eSubmission We provide 100% compliant CDISC implementation and eSubmission solutions, including process improvements, ADaM implementation and consulting, and more. Learn More See All Solutions Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/biometrics/biostatistics/
Biostatistics Solutions | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Biometrics » Biostatistics Biostatistics Efficient, Flexible, & Scalable Statistical Biostatistics Solutions With industry-leading efficiency and organization that promotes exceptional standards, ClinChoice’s team of biostatisticians delivers end-to-end solutions fully tailored to the unique conditions of your project. In-depth expertise in various therapeutic areas enables us to assist pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and medical device sponsor companies to navigate complex and dynamic processes from pre-clinical to drug approval. Our flexible approach enables us to develop custom service models unique to your needs, whether project-based, FSP, or a combination of the two. We approach every project with a commitment to work diligently, ensuring accurate data , and careful analysis within your timelines and budgets. Each service can be implemented individually or as part of an end-to-end biostatistics solution. Comprehensive Statistical Programming Solutions Clinical Development Planning Power/Sample Size Estimation Protocol Development Randomization Statistical Analysis Plan Interim Analysis/DMC Statistical Modeling & Simulation Exploratory Analysis Clinical Study Report Statistical report Annual Report (DSUR & PSUR) ISS/ISE Observational Studies & HEOR Publications See All Biometrics Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/biometrics/statistical-programming/
Statistical Programming Solutions | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Biometrics » Statistical Programming Statistical Programming Efficient, Flexible, & Scalable Statistical Programming Solutions With industry-leading efficiency, flexibility, and scalability built into our statistical programming solutions, ClinChoice has been at the forefront of the industry since our founding in 1995. Our flexible approach enables us to develop custom service models unique to your needs, whether project-based, FSP, or a combination of the two. We approach every project with a commitment to work diligently, ensuring accurate data, and careful analysis within your timelines and budgets. Each service can be implemented individually or as part of an end-to-end statistical programming solution. “Over the years, we expanded our team of expert programmers, implemented excellent training programs, developed SOPs to ensure accuracy and efficiency, and built strategic global delivery centers to meet the needs of our clients. Our efforts have resulted in extremely high-quality and efficient statistical programming solutions that are unparalleled in our industry.” Yuguang Zhao Senior Vice President Programming and Development Comprehensive Statistical Programming Solutions C CRF, SAP Review and Inputs SDTM Data Package Preparation ADaM Data Package Preparation PK/PD Dataset Preparation Integrated SDTM/ADaM Data Packages (ISS/ISE/ISI) Preparation Office of Scientific Investigation (clinsite.xpt, define.xml, reviewers guide, and OSI listings) Patient Profiles Data Exploration and Programming Automation See All Biometrics Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/biometrics/data-management/
Data Management Solutions | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Biometrics » Data Management Data Management Fully Customizable Data Management Solutions ClinChoice offers high-quality, flexible data management solutions that are tailored to the unique needs of each client. We support end-to-end clinical data management activities, from eCRF development through database lock . Our Clinical Data Management team is comprised of experienced data managers and database designers who have a deep understanding of the requirements of sponsors, study sites, and statisticians. Excellent planning and proven SOPs enable us to provide accurate, actionable data to our clients while meeting aggressive timelines. ClinChoice offers flexibility in meeting your evolving data management requirements with seamless implementation into systems and processes, and best practices customized to your programs. Accomplishments In The Last 3 Years Get Comprehensive Data Management Solutions Data Management Plan & All Related Documentation Database Design & Development eCRF Edit Check Specification Creation User Acceptance Testing Data Entry Data Review & Query Management External Data Transfer & Reconciliation SAE Reconciliation Dictionary Coding (MedDRA & WHO Drug) Database Lock Study Archive eTMF Filing Integrated Database Design Capabilities As part of the data management team, the database design group seamlessly collaborates with data managers, statistical programmers, and biostatisticians to deliver clinical database design solutions in a variety of areas, including: Certified Builder/Trainer of Multiple Industrial Leading EDCs Medidata Rave Oracle InForm Medrio Veeva OpenClinica Oracle Clinical RDC Clinical Database Design IWRS Configuration Custom Report Creation, Including Data Visualization Reports Site & User Administration EDC/IWRS User Helpdesk See All Biometrics Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/biometrics/cdisc-esubmission/
CDISC Compliance | CDISC Implementation & eSubmission Services | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Biometrics » CDISC eSubmission CDISC / eSubmission Ensuring 100% CDISC Compliance for Your Data ClinChoice raises the standard of excellence in clinical data by ensuring your data is 100% CDISC compliant and fully validated, all within your timelines and budget. We know the value of standardized study data pertaining to Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium (CDISC) specifications. We’re proud to be a CDISC Registered Solutions Provider and have worked with the organization since 2002. We skillfully employ all CDISC standards and remain current with FDA submission guidance and expedite implementation to promote efficient agency review. In the past five years, we’ve prepared more than 1000 SDTM / ADaM study packages across 75 compounds for 20 companies. We’ve created SDTM / ADaM for ISS / ISE packages for with expansive projects, including up to 38 protocols from Phase I to III, conducted throughout the US, Europe, and Asia. Our CDISC Implementation & eSubmission Services Process Improvement & CDISC SDTM / ADaM Implementation Consulting Develop company standards based on CDISC current models Optimize data flow from data capture CDASH to SDTM to ADaM to TLFs Optimize clinical toolsets to achieve standards and return on investment Knowledge transfer of data standardization process Study data standardization plan (SDSP) Legacy & Ongoing Study Data Conversions to SDTM Standards SDTM annotated CRF (aCRF.pdf) SDTM mapping specifications Conversion of legacy raw datasets to SDTM datasets SDTM define.xml SDTM compliance checks using OpenCDISC / Pinnacle 21 Validator SDTM Reviewer’s Guide (SDRG) ADaM Standards ADaM specifications Creation of ADaM datasets ADaM define.xml ADaM compliance checks using OpenCDISC / Pinnacle 21 Validator ADaM reviewer’s guide (ADRG) Extensive SDTM / ADaM Experience Since 2002 CDISC Platinum Member CDISC Registered Solution Provider Co-leader of a CDISC / FDA Data Integration Pilot Member of CDISC SDS Working Group Member of CDISC ADaM Working Group Member of CDISC XML-Tech Group Member of CDISC China Committee See All Biometrics Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/clinical-operations/
Clinical Operations Services | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Clinical Operations Clinical Research Operations Broad Operational Expertise to Meet the Challenges of Any Clinical Development Program ClinChoice is your complete source for comprehensive biometrics solutions that ensure your clinical trial data meets the highest quality standards. Over the years, we’ve built a reputation as a preferred partner for our clients around the world by providing superior solutions that reduce complexities and speed up time to market for your products. With ClinChoice, you get more than just data analysis – you get a deep understanding of modern biometrics and the science of medicine. Comprehensive Global Clinical Trial Operations Solutions Our deep focus on clinical operations project management is supported by well-developed processes and experienced team members around the globe, including Greater China, the US, the UK, Armenia, Japan, South Korea, India, and the Philippines. Dedicated project teams develop thorough plans involving all stakeholders in every clinical research operations service we provide. Our experienced project managers and teams: Oversee coordination and communication associated with trial meeting planning Monitor and measure performance as outlined in each custom plan Track milestones, budgets, and timelines to ensure adherence to contractual obligations Drive trial execution according to startup and enrollment benchmarks Project Management Our medical and operational project management professionals bring extensive experience in various therapeutic areas for drugs and devices to every phase of your project. Learn More Clinical Monitoring Our clinical research associates have the experience, regulatory knowledge, and skills to provide quality service while tracking and monitoring every aspect of your program. Learn More Data Management Our customizable data management solutions are tailored to each client’s unique needs with end-to-end clinical data management activities, from eCRF development through database lock. Learn More Site Startup (SSU) Complete site setup and startup solutions, EC submissions and approvals, OHGRA application processing, contract management, and document collections. Learn More Site Service Gain a better understanding of how patients are treated and which sites have access to your target populations. Learn More Site Management Organization Expert site management organization to help investigators review source documents and improve accuracy, completeness, and standardization. Learn More See All Solutions Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/clinical-operations/project-management/
Project Management Solutions | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Clinical Operations » Project Management Project Management Focused on Quality, Risks, Costs and Timelines Get dedicated leaders for your projects from initiation to closure with the ClinChoice project management team. Our team of medical and operational professionals brings extensive experience in a wide range of therapeutic areas for drugs and devices to every project at every phase. Control risks and anticipate unforeseen circumstances Accurately manage costs and budget plans Track key metrics and milestones Continually assess processes for new opportunities End-to-End Project Management Solutions Project planning and scheduling, ensuring timelines and deliverables are achieved Communicating with sponsors to align on-site and management, enrollment plans, and clinical monitoring Training project team members and site staff Cooperation with monitoring and inspection procedures Cost management, supplier management, and drug supply management Quality control Timely reporting of project progress and issues Complete clearinghouse for issues and escalations Coordinating investigator payments Developing comprehensive communication and plans Coordinating interaction among teams Project Manager Background See All Clinical Operations Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/clinical-operations/clinical-monitoring/
Clinical Monitoring Solutions | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Clinical Operations » Clinical Monitoring Clinical Monitoring Ensuring Study Integrity Throughout Your Programs With rich experience in clinical trials and a high-quality, professional Clinical research associate (CRA) team, ClinChoice provides comprehensive monitoring of all project functions and parameters to ensure the integrity of your program. Our extensive range of services covers phase I-IV clinical trials of drugs and devices development in all major therapeutic areas. Our robust training system ensures every CRA has clinical research experience, regulatory knowledge, and work skills to provide quality services that are consistently trusted and recognized by our partners. Get Expert CRAs to Rigorously Monitor Clinical Activities at Every Stage Site selection visit Site initiation visit Interim monitoring visits Closeout visit CRA Background See All Clinical Operations Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/clinical-operations/site-startup/
Site Startup Solutions | SSU Services | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Clinical Operations » Site Startup Site Startup (SSU) Accelerate Your Project & Site Startup Process Based on the rich clinical research experience and extensive site knowledge accumulated from past partnerships, the ClinChoice SSU team streamlines and optimizes every aspect using extensive project management and site startup organization . From the very beginning of the project, we support sponsors with professional interpretation of regulations and site processes, helping them lead their studies around the world and save time in subjects recruitment. Comprehensive SSU Services Comprehensive site setup EC submissions and approvals Office of Human Genetic Resources Administration (OHGRA) application processing (China only) Contract negotiations and signoffs Essential documents collection before site initiations Scope of ClinChoice Startup Services Develop and implement clinical trial site initiation strategies according to the protocol and the work scope of the contract, as well as the relevant requirements of SOP and GCP. Be responsible for site startup risk management of clinical trials to ensure the trial schedule can be met. Provide data, experience, and strategic support for fast, high-quality startup solutions. See All Clinical Operations Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/clinical-operations/site-service/
Site Service Solutions | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Clinical Operations » Site Service Site Service Determine Study Feasibility & Develop Plans for a Smooth Delivery ClinChoice site service solutions enable you to better understand how patients are treated and which sites have access to your target populations. With a feasibility evaluation, we can better predict which sites will have a larger impact on the recruitment and target those sites to accelerate startup and recruitment timelines. We assess the design of your study in terms of patient enrollment potential, patient recruitment strategies, protocol concerns, and other considerations. With a global database of investigators experienced in a wide range of indications, ClinChoice provides high-enrolling sites capable of generating large amounts of valid, verifiable data to better meet your scientific and business objectives. Comprehensive Site Services A robust database of investigators, sites, and patients Exceptional cooperative relationships with more than 300 GCP offices, 1,500+ sites, and 1,000+ investigators Strategic relationships and partnerships with key sites Superior study delivery with quick startup, fast recruitment, and industry-leading quality Key Considerations See All Clinical Operations Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/clinical-operations/site-management-organization/
Site Management Organization | SMO Clinical Research | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Clinical Operations » Site Management Organization Clinical Trial Site Management Organization (SMO) Full-Service SMO Solutions ClinChoice supports clinical trials by placing highly trained Clinical Research Coordinators (CRCs) at each research site dedicated to a specific protocol. CRCs are delegated by PI and mainly support investigators on non-medical-evaluating related study activities during the conduct of a clinical trial. CRCs are especially critical in China, as investigators are typically occupied by routine clinical work. But, many organizations struggle to resolve the shortage of human resources due to the limitations of most public hospitals in the country. Our experienced research coordinators offer diverse capabilities to conduct each clinical trial with the highest standards of quality and ethics. ClinChoice has provided full-service clinical trial SMO solutions for more than 230 clinical studies, cooperated with more than 450 sites, and managed 60,000 subjects. Clinical Trial SMO Services for a Variety of Study Areas We help investigators review source documents to improve accuracy, completeness, and standardization. Oncology Endocrinology Respiration Neurology Cardiology Immunology Infection Ophthalmology See All Clinical Operations Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/drug-safety/
Drug Safety | ClinChoice | Pharmacovigilance | Clinical Safety This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Drug Safety Drug Safety Comprehensive Drug Safety Solutions ClinChoice has an entire suite of drug safety solutions to ensure patient interests remain a priority during a drug’s lifecycle. With a strong understanding of regulations, our team of experts is at the forefront of providing analysis and generating insight that improves the quality of life. At ClinChoice, we are dedicated to advancing patient safety research with data, drive, and decisiveness. Case Processing Our team of safety experts manages end-to-end case processing capabilities that are the foundation of advanced safety analytics. We use domain expertise and technology to reduce processing times and ensure compliance at every step. Learn More Aggregate Report Development and Submission Our authors and quality reviewers help the development of periodic and ad-hoc reports for every phase of drug development and post-marketing. We manage the entire spectrum of activities that lead to the creation and submission of first-time-right reports. Learn More Signal Management Our safety scientists pore through every element of adverse event data to identify patterns and propose new safety information and activities triggered by the discovery of a new signal. Learn More Literature Monitoring Our team of literature reviewers uses pharmacovigilance literature monitoring best practices to carefully crafted search strategies to screen global and local literature to identify adverse events that contribute to case processing, aggregate report authoring, and signal management. Learn More Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Our safety specialists evaluate and author safety risk evaluation and mitigation strategies and plans for innovator and generic drug applications. Learn More Safety Data Exchange Agreements Our team of contract experts creates and maintains agreements in compliance with local health authority requirements and monitors the partners’ adherence to their commitments. Learn More Pharmacovigilance System Master File Management Our pharmacovigilance quality specialists ensure that the PSMF is up-to-date, reviews existing processes for compliance, and maintains the necessary documentation to support health authority evaluations. Learn More Medical Information Call Center Solutions Our highly-trained product and safety specialists evaluate information requests to identify adverse events and product quality complaints and provide accurate responses to support physicians and patients. Learn More Local Safety Officers Our local safety officers with country-specific regulatory knowledge oversee local case processing, review safety reports, compliance monitoring, inspection support, PSMF maintenance, and establishment of local PV processes, among other functions. Learn More See All Solutions Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/drug-safety/case-processing/
Drug Safety Case Processing | ClinChoice | Pharmacovigilance | Clinical Safety | ARISg | Argus | Triage | Narrative Writing | Medical Review This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Drug Safety » Case Processing Case Processing Proven Scientific and Medical Expertise in Over 20 Therapeutic Areas Across Drug Lifecycles ClinChoice reduces patient risk by leveraging our blend of product knowledge and industry best practices to meet the most stringent requirements for adverse event reporting and management. We provide exceptional prowess at each stage of case processing: Intake Triage Data Entry Quality Review Medical Review Submissions The modular design of our offerings allows the selection of individual services or an end-to-end solution for adverse event reporting and management in the early clinical trial phases to post-marketing surveillance. Our specialists have proficiency in Argus, ARISg/LifeSphere Safety, and other safety databases. We enhance our ICSR management capabilities by providing the following services: Medical information call center (MICC) management Safety literature searches for identification of ICSRs Automated tracking of open and missing cases Monitoring of expedited reporting and reporting of submission status Submission of serious adverse event reports to health authorities Quality assurance E2B case reporting & archiving See All Drug Safety Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/drug-safety/aggregate-report-development-and-submission/
Aggregate Reports | ClinChoice | PBRERs | PSURs |ISS | PADERs | BRE | REMS | RMP | DSURs This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Drug Safety » Aggregate Report Development and Submission Aggregate Report Development and Submission Accomplished Authoring and Quality Reviews for Drug and Drug-Device Regulatory Compliance ClinChoice’s team of safety and regulatory experts adopt a collaborative approach to create high-quality periodic and ad-hoc safety reports. We have extensive experience in: Periodic Benefit/Risk Evaluation Reports (PBRERs) Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs) Post-Marketing Safety Report Integrated Summaries of Safety (US) Canadian Aggregate Reports (CARs) Summary Bridging Reports (SBRs) Periodic Adverse Drug Experience Reports (PADERs) PRAC/Health Authority Responses Developmental Safety Update Reports (DSURs) Benefit/Risk Profile Reports Literature Search, Analyses, and Ad-Hoc Benefit/Risk Assessments Data Analysis and Risk Communications Subject Matter Expertise for Risk Management Plans (RMPs) and Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies (REMS) Risk Minimization Plans (RMP) Over the years of our service, we have excelled in managing the aggregate report authoring and submission process. We partner with our clients in: Maintenance of the Aggregate Reporting Calendar Generation of Listings from the Pharmacovigilance Database Technical and Medical Review of the Reports Response to Health Authority Queries See All Drug Safety Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/drug-safety/signal-management/
Drug Safety Signal Management | ClinChoice | Alert Management | Signal Assessment | Signal Triage | Signal Validation | Signal Evaluation This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Drug Safety » Signal Management Signal Management Qualitative and Quantitative Analysis for End-to-End Signal Management and Trend Reporting ClinChoice’s team of physicians employs the most appropriate statistical algorithms for signal identification with diverse experience across multiple therapeutic areas. We mine a myriad of data sources, ranging from spontaneous cases to case series to literature assessments, to external databases (FAERS, Vigibase, and EVDAS, among others) to detect and evaluate potential signals. We author medically reviewed reports to document the benefit-risk profile and recommendations for any identified signals. Our services include: Signal Detection Signal Validation and Confirmation Signal Analysis and Prioritization Signal Assessment Authoring of Signal Management Reports Support for Labeling Updates See All Drug Safety Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/drug-safety/literature-monitoring/
Drug Safety Literature Monitoring | ClinChoice | Local Literature Monitoring This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Drug Safety » Literature Monitoring Drug Safety Literature Monitoring ClinChoice performs thorough searches in medical and scientific databases to analyze relevant safety information for continuous risk management. ClinChoice’s literature search specialists perform meticulous surveillance by applying pharmacovigilance literature monitoring best practices to identify precise and complete safety information for case processing , aggregate reporting, and signal detection. Literature Sources We Use: Public and Commercial Databases Meeting and Journal Article Abstracts Published Studies Publications from Congresses, Conferences, and Trade Shows Literature from Registries, Studies, and Regulatory Agencies Our Services Support: Creation of Search Strategies Local and Global Literature Monitoring Services Management of Translation and Procurement of Shortlisted Articles Joint Development of Inclusion and Exclusion Criteria Analytical Writing for Summaries Literature Protocol and Reports See All Drug Safety Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/drug-safety/risk-evaluation-mitigation/
Risk Evaluation & Mitigation | ClinChoice | Aggregate Reports This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Drug Safety » Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Drug Safety Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Analysis and Risk Management Reporting for New Product Registrations and Labelling Updates ClinChoice’s team of physicians and product specialists collaborate to design and prepare risk mitigation plans (RMPs) and risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (REMS) to support marketing authorization applications to the FDA and EMA. Our objective is to identify potential problems and address any issues that may arise before they escalate. Our experience includes preparation of: Safety information reviews & revisions All sections of medical assessments Full safety profiles Risk-related position papers Risk-benefit evaluations Integrated summaries of safety (ISS) Product expectedness lists Our safety experts are also qualified to assist you with: Oversight and Tracking of Medical Monitoring Thorough Literature Searches and Assessments of Epidemiology Identification of Significant Risks and Missing Information Reviewing and Determining Adequate Routine and Additional Risk Minimization Measures Creation of Submission-Ready RMPs Assessment checks to document the effectiveness of risk mitigation strategies See All Drug Safety Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/drug-safety/safety-data-exchange-agreements/
Safety Data Exchange Agreements (SDEAs) | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Drug Safety » Safety Data Exchange Agreements Safety Data Exchange Agreements (SDEAs) Leading Technology and Medico-Legal Experience for Full SDEA Creation, Updates, and Archiving ClinChoice’s specialists have experience reconciling and updating SDEAs across all the operating geographies of the marketing authorization holders and other partners. Our Services Include: Digitization of Paper SDEAs Reconciliation of SDEAs Creation of Global SDEA Templates Coordination and Authoring of ew SDEAs Review of Existing Audits for Assignment of Responsibilities and Updates of Terms Maintenance of Active SDEAs Authoring of SOPs for the Governance of SDEAs See All Drug Safety Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/drug-safety/pharmacovigilance-system-master-file-psmf-management/
Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Drug Safety » Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Experience in European Markets to Expertly Maintain the Pharmacovigilance System Master File With their deep understanding of EU regulations, our pharmacovigilance specialists provide all the necessary support to using pharmacovigilance literature monitoring best practices prepare and maintain the PMSF under GVP Module II. We leverage our experience and presence in Europe to expertly maintain the pharmacovigilance system master file in compliance with EU Directive 2010/84/EU (amending 2001/83/EC) Our Services Include: Preparation of the PMSF Template Verification and Update of the PMSF Content, Including but Not Limited to: Details of the QPPV Organization Structure of the Marketing Authorization Holder Safety Data Exchange Agreement Sources Pharmacovigilance Systems And Databases System Performance and Processes Creation of Additional Annexes as Required Authoring of SOPs for PSMF Maintenance Creation of Training Material See All Drug Safety Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/drug-safety/medical-information-call-center-micc-solutions/
Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Drug Safety » Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions End-to-End Medical Call Center Management ClinChoice’s Medical Information Call Center Service can efficiently manage medical information requests, identify adverse events (AEs)/Incident reporting, and product quality complaints (PQCs). The specialists process and document AEs and PQCs in the agreed timelines to facilitate the product’s safety profile analyses. Our delivery centers are equipped to provide round-the-clock support with multi-lingual capabilities to engage with patients, healthcare professionals, and other stakeholders. We are fully capable of providing the appropriate medical and product responses with auditable communications based on a strong understanding of the products. ClinChoice has experience in coupling our medical information call center capabilities with our in-house case processing operations to accelerate the submission of critical safety updates to health authorities. Our Services Include: Set-up of Medical Information Call Center Management of Call Intake, Triage, and Followup Documentation of Calls and Request Fulfillment Transfer of AEs, PQCs, and Medical Information Queries Independent Quality Review of Calls Creation and Maintenance of FAQs Product Replacement and Refund Support Training of MICC Specialists See All Drug Safety Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/drug-safety/local-safety-officer-lso-services/
Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Drug Safety » Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Experienced Local Safety Officers to Support Regional Pharmacovigilance Activities and Engage with Health Authorities Local Safety Officer (LSO) services play a crucial role in pharmacovigilance, ensuring the safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical products at a regional level. LSOs are responsible for monitoring and reporting adverse events, which helps regulatory agencies and pharmaceutical companies maintain a comprehensive understanding of a drug’s safety profile. These dedicated professionals work closely with stakeholders to collect and evaluate safety data, ensuring that any emerging risks are identified and addressed promptly. LSO services are instrumental in enhancing patient safety and public health by fostering a proactive approach to drug safety surveillance within local communities and healthcare systems. ClinChoice’s LSOs will be responsible for regulatory compliance of all the pharmacovigilance activities in their assigned locations. In addition to being the client’s local representative for pharmacovigilance, the officers will enhance the quality of the regional drug safety operations and liaise with regulatory affairs to meet compliance requirements. Our LSOs remain abreast with the latest EU and local safety regulations with the support of our in-house PV intelligence team. LSO responsibilities include: Compliance of Local Pharmacovigilance Operations with Company SOPs and Work Instructions Receipt and Oversight of Processing of Adverse Events Reported Case Reconciliation of Reported Cases with Internal and External Partners Review of Local Labeling Changes Provision of Appropriate Safety-Related Information in Response to External Queries Review of Local SDEAs Training for Key Personnel Including External Partners Manage the Preparation and Implementation of Local Risk Mitigation Measures Optimization of Local Processes Managing Adverse Event Reporting Support the Submission of Reports to Local Authorities Inspection Readiness and Oversight of Deviations/CAPA’s See All Drug Safety Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/medical-device-safety/
Medical Device Safety | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Medical Device Safety Medical Device Safety Comprehensive Medical Device Safety Solutions ClinChoice is the partner you need to identify and manage adverse events caused by medical devices. With proven experience in pre-marketing and post-marketing safety management in the most complex therapeutic areas, we provide continuous support from our delivery centers to advance patient safety. Your needs are always our mission. Medical Device Call Center Our product and safety specialists provide call center services around the clock to monitor adverse events and product complaints before expertly disseminating information to all stakeholders efficiently and on time. Learn More Literature Monitoring Our literature monitors review articles from global and local databases to identify potential incident reports and classify them for further analyses. Learn More Incident Reporting We provide end-to-end management of the incident reporting process to expertly determine severity and expedite reporting of serious incidents in compliance with regulations for devices across all classes. Learn More Medical Writing Our highly-trained medical writing teams author and submit high-quality periodic reports across the product’s lifecycle to meet guidelines prescribed by health authorities. Learn More See All Solutions Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/medical-device-safety/call-center/
Medical Device Call Center | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Medical Device Safety » Medical Device Call Center Medical Device Call Center End-to-end Medical Device Call Center Management – Highly Trained Safety & Product Specialists Our Medical Device Call Center Service can efficiently manage medical and product information requests, collect and evaluate adverse incidents and product complaints (PCs). Our specialists process and document incident reports and PCs in the agreed timelines to facilitate further information processing by respective departments. Our delivery centers are equipped to provide round-the-clock support with multi-lingual capabilities to engage with patients, healthcare professionals, and other stakeholders. We are fully capable of providing the appropriate medical and product responses with auditable communications based on a strong understanding of the products. ClinChoice has experience in coupling our medical device call center capabilities with our in-house incident reporting operations to accelerate the submission of critical safety reports to health authorities. Comprehensive Medical Device Call Center Solutions Set-Up of Medical Device Call Center Management of Call Intake, Triage, and Follow-Up Documentation of Calls and Request Fulfillment Transfer of Incident Reports, PCs, and Medical/Product Information Queries Product Use Training and Support Medical App Usage Support Independent Quality Review of Calls Creation And Maintenance of FAQs Product Replacement and Refund Support Excluding Logistics Training of MDCC Specialists See All Medical Device Safety Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/medical-device-safety/literature-monitoring/
Medical Device Literature Monitoring | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Medical Device Safety » Literature Monitoring Medical Device Literature Monitoring ClinChoice performs thorough searches in medical and scientific databases to analyze relevant safety information for continuous risk management. ClinChoice’s literature search specialists perform meticulous literature monitoring and surveillance by applying pharmacovigilance literature monitoring best practices to identify precise and complete safety information for incident reporting, aggregate report authoring, technical and medical writing, and trend reporting. Literature Sources We Use: Public and Commercial Databases Meeting and Journal Article Abstracts Published Studies Publications from Congresses, Conferences, and Trade Shows Literature from Registries, Studies, and Regulatory Agencies Our Services Support: Creation of Search Strategies Local and Global Literature Monitoring Services Management of Translation and Procurement of Shortlisted Articles Joint Development of Inclusion and Exclusion Criteria Analytical Writing for Summaries Literature Protocol and Reports See All Medical Device Safety Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/medical-device-safety/incident-reporting/
Medical Device Incident Reporting | ClinChoice | Triage | Narrative Writing | Medical Review | Clinical Safety | ARISg | Argus This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Medical Device Safety » Incident Reporting Medical Device Incident Reporting Expert Medical Device Incident Reporting to Meet Complex Regulatory Demands in Mature and Developing Markets ClinChoice advances patient safety using our understanding of medical device nuances and industry best practices to provide a thorough analysis and comprehensive documentation of reported adverse incidents. We provide exceptional prowess at each stage of incident reporting management: Intake Triage Data Entry Quality Review Medical Review Submissions The modular design of our offerings allows the selection of individual services or an end-to-end solution for adverse incident reporting and management in the early clinical trial phases to post-marketing surveillance. Our specialists have proficiency in Argus, ARISg/LifeSphere Safety, and other safety databases. We enhance our medical device incident reporting management capabilities by providing the following services: Medical Device Call Center (MDCC) Management for Follow Up Automated Tracking of Open and Missing Incidents Monitoring of Expedited Reporting and Reporting of Submission Status Submission of Serious Adverse Incident Reports to Health Authorities Quality Assurance See All Medical Device Safety Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/medical-device-safety/medical-writing/
Medical Writing | ClinChoice | Technical Writing | PMCF | PMS | SSCP | IB | CERs This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Medical Device Safety » Medical Writing Medical Writing Clinical and Post-Marketing Safety Reports, CE Marking Techincal Files for the Most Demanding Regulations ClinChoice’s in-house team of medical writers has diverse experience and proven competency in preparing high-quality reports critical to the progression of clinical trials and ongoing risk evaluation of marketed products. Our understanding of the MEDDEV 2.7/1 Rev 4, MDR 2017/745, and IVDR 2017/746 regulations, GCP guidelines, and relevant ISO standards is key to authoring highly accomplished reports. Our medical and technical writers contribute to the monitoring and analysis of medical devices across their lifecycle for continuous risk-benefit evaluation. Clinical Phase Clinical Investigation Plan (CIP) Clinical Evaluation Plan (CEP) Systematic Literature Review Protocol and Report Investigator Brochure (IB) Development Instructions for Use (IFU) Clinical Investigation Report Clinical Evaluation Report (CER) Summary of Safety and Clinical Performance (SSCPs) Risk-Benefit Assessment State-of-the-Art Post-Marketing Phase Post Marketing Surveillance (PMS) Plan Post Market Clinical Follow Up (PMCF) Plan Post Market Clinical Follow Up PMS Report PSURs IFUs Trend Reports Our authors are supported by a medical device literature monitoring team that performs global and local searches to identify relevant information for summaries, reports, and other manuscripts. See All Medical Device Safety Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/regulatory-affairs/
Regulatory Affairs | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Affairs Get Expert Assistance Meeting the Complex Challenges of Global Regulation and Develop Strategies To Minimize Risk and Maximize Benefit Regulatory affairs play a leadership role in life sciences product development and lifecycle management, informing all functional groups involved in the process. A solid regulatory affairs team is paramount to understanding the dynamic regulatory environment, ensuring compliance, and advising on opportunities created by new and revised regulations. Our professionals in the Americas, Europe, and Asia/Pacific assist clients in understanding and adhering to the regions’ regulatory requirements in which they conduct studies and market products. Market Intelligence and Strategy Our regulatory strategy consultants are mindful of regulatory updates in mature and emerging markets, helping our clients develop the right strategies to enter new markets and retain their edge in existing ones. Learn More Publishing Our team of publishing experts provides end-to-end publishing services for electronic and non-electronic formats at a document and report level and submission to health authorities. Learn More SPL Conversion Services Our experts support every label conversion requirement by preparing SPL submission packages for our clients with products in the US market. Learn More Global Regulatory CMC Services Our experienced CMC team authors dossier sections for new applications and manage global change control requests, variation submissions, supplements, annual report submissions, and renewals. Learn More Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Our global multi-disciplinary teams develop high-quality company core data sheets and create the framework for its maintenance during its lifecycle. Learn More Labeling and Artwork Management Our local and global labeling hubs create and maintain labels and artwork with unparalleled market intelligence, deep-domain expertise, and deep product knowledge. Learn More Legal Entity Alignment Our global regulatory operations have helped our clients manage the evolution of their organizations as they merge, acquire, or divest their brands and product portfolios in emerging and mature markets around the world. Learn More Regulatory Information Management Our regulatory data experts support applications for variations, renewals, supplements, and annual report submissions, apart from xEVMPD submissions. Learn More Document Management Our teams have experience in collating information from various sources and maintaining document versions to reduce the time taken to create dossiers and other regulatory documents for submission to health authorities. Learn More Product Registration Support Our legal-regulatory teams prepare document packages for product registration in various markets based on our in-house regulatory intelligence and understand local nuances for new registrations, renewals, and tender participation, and more. Learn More See All Solutions Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/regulatory-affairs/electronic-submissions-publishing/
Electronic Submissions Publishing | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Regulatory Affairs » Electronic Submissions Publishing Electronic Submissions Publishing ClinChoice assists biopharmaceutical companies in maximizing the benefits of electronic submission systems while providing support to ensure smooth, efficient implementation. ClinChoice publishing services include complete lifecycle management of the submission process with flexible options for report-level publishing, submission publishing, compilation, and lifecycle maintenance for drug products and drug substances (DMF and ASMF). Our regulatory affairs professionals work in an array of electronic formats, including electronic common technical documents (eCTD), non-eCTD electronic submission (NeeS), paper submissions, and structured product labeling (SPL). eCTD submission services The electronic publishing process leading to a regulatory submission may be divided into five processes: Document/report level publishing Regulatory submission level publishing Fit and finish activities Document and submission quality control Submission of the published package to the health authority via an electronic portal and archival of the document, including healthy authority correspondence Our services for document/report level publishing include: Scanning paper content Converting documents into PDFs according to regulatory guidance Creating bookmarks matching table of contents Creating a hyperlinked table of contents Hyperlinking internal and external documents Ensuring that documents are well-formatted, complete, and legible (pertinent to old legacy reports) Quality control on all document navigation Resolve publishing errors Converting legacy paper-based submissions to eCTD Creating baseline submissions Quick turnaround on responses to queries to reduce overall approval time Provide regulatory and strategic advice for managing the lifecycle of registered products as per market regulations Customized Quality Control checklist for each submission type See All Regulatory Affairs Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/regulatory-affairs/spl-conversion-services/
SPL Conversion Services | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Regulatory Affairs » SPL Conversion Services SPL Conversion Services ClinChoice has extensive experience converting and creating SPL XML files in full compliance with SPL guidelines. Our SPL conversion services include the creation of SPL submission packages to the FDA for: NDC labeler code registration Establishment registration Drug listing and content labeling The SPL team supports eSubmission gateway setups and guides in creating validated SPL submission packages. Our validated SPL R4 submission packages include SPL R4 documents in an XML file for delivery to the customer and uploading to the FDA submissions gateway. For every label conversion assignment, our deliverables include: An FDA-ready, submittable SPL package containing the converted XML file, associated molecular images, and all other relevant images A conversion service worksheet providing transparency on the conversion approach and a conversion service report summarizing tasks executed during the conversion See All Regulatory Affairs Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/regulatory-affairs/global-regulatory-cmc-services/
Global Regulatory CMC Services - ClinChoice This website stores cookies on
your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and
provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through
other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy
Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order
to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so
that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses
cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy
Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI
Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical
Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project
Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case
Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management
Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange
Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical
Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services
Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring
Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and
Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global
Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling
and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information
Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device
Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory
Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval
Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control
Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing
Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific &
Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-
Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology
Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview
Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines
Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources
Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About
ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice
Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact
Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment
Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming
Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management
Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing
Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature
Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements
Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information
Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical
Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident
Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy
Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory
CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork
Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document
Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs
Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration
Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork &
Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing
EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology
Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic
Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19
Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease
Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical
Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural
Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions »
Regulatory Affairs » Global Regulatory CMC Services Global Regulatory CMC
Services ClinChoice offers the experience and expertise to serve as your
preferred partner in global regulatory affairs, assisting in meeting strict
deadlines, effectively maintaining operational costs, and gaining approvals
across multiple global markets. Our team can help achieve your objectives with
our consultative approach and comprehensive oversight of activity throughout
the approval cycle. We strive to exceed your expectations in terms of:
Compliance Quality Timeliness Our team is comprised of expert CMC
professionals, experienced and skilled in the preparation, compilation, and
delivery of regulatory submissions. Our team brings together the knowledge,
skill, and expertise, ensuring accuracy, accountability, and responsiveness
throughout the entire regulatory cycle. Our services include: Regulatory
consulting for strategy and desired pathway for submission Interaction with
health authority for the pre-submission discussion Pre-approval assistance
Post-marketing change management Product lifecycle management Response to
health authority questions Market Intelligence and Strategy Pre-approval
assistance: Compile dossiers per US FDA requirements for Investigational New
Drug (IND), New Drug Application (NDA), Biologics License Application (BLA),
and Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) Compile dossiers per EU
legislation for Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) via Centralized
Procedure (CP), National Procedure (NA), Mutual Recognition Procedure (MRP),
Decentralized Procedure (DCP), and Repeat Use Procedure (RUP) Prepare
bibliographic and line extension applications for EU regions Compile dossiers
for Latin America (LATAM), CIS, CAR, Africa, Middle East, GCC, and Asia
Pacific (APAC) per regulatory guidelines, including direct submissions for
various agencies CMC regulatory gap analysis for identification, assessment,
and provision of CMC regulatory mitigation strategies for remediation
Authoring of Drug Master File/Active Substance Master File Multilingual
submissions for local registrations Consultation and response to questions
from agencies Scientific interpretation of regional guidelines Converting
legacy paper dossiers to CTD format by providing scientific guidance to
generate additional required documentation Prepare product information
(SmPC/PL/Label), PIF and mock-ups Post-marketing assistance/Product lifecycle
Management Preparation of, and assistance with, submission of amendments,
supplements, and variations to marketing authorizations Authoring of annual
reports, supplements, and amendments for IND, BLA, NDA and ANDA Review of
changes to advertising and promotional materials Renewal of licenses for the
Rest of World (ROW) countries Prepare and finalize renewal submission package
for all procedures in EU (CP/NA/MRP/DCP/RUP) Respond within stipulated
timelines on queries/deficiencies raised by health authorities and customers
Reformulation for submission to global regulatory agencies, including raw
material assessments, ingredient list generation, toxicity testing, labeling,
dossier preparation, and registration Evaluation of change control for the
region-wise impact Creation and review of change control request Product
quality review and annual product review Global Change Control Management and
tracking Support for Medical Devices Lifecycle Management Support for medical
device development, including assistance in 510(K), pre-market approval (PMA),
and de novo submissions to FDA Advice on EU directives to achieve compliant CE
marking Eligible to act as the regulatory authorized representative for non-EU
manufacturers without an office in an EU member state Assign Unique Device
Identification (UDI) numbers for medical devices See All Regulatory Affairs
Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading
full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market
to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25
years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a
flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast
timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408
Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin
International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone
+86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy
Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This
site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience.
Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified
on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not
impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and
device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie
Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/regulatory-affairs/company-core-data-sheet-management-services/
Company Core Data Sheet Management Services | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Regulatory Affairs » Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services ClinChoice helps biopharmaceutical companies prepare and manage global and local company core data sheets (CCDS), one of the most complex activities in regulatory operations. Our team has proven experience in centrally managing the entire label lifecycle, from initial design and review to obsolescence. Our services for regulated life sciences products include: Development of the Investigational Brochure (core safety information), target product profiles, and target labeling Authoring and design of effective, defensible labeling content and format implementation before filing Assistance with regulatory requests to correct non-compliant proposed labeling content Writing or updating labeling documents, including CCDSs Creation of: A labeling decision-making structure for products under development and post-marketing labeling changes The structure and features of CCDSs and guidance in populating implementable CCDSs Labeling project management systems to manage requests, document decisions, track implementation, and integrate product knowledge bases Labeling databases and document management systems for tracking and auditing systems Regulations for required product labeling vary widely from region to region. ClinChoice assists with designing and developing CCDSs containing all necessary information enabling local labeling for: Approved indications Dosing requirements Methods of administration Concerns of special patient populations Packaging and storage requirements and limitations Incompatibilities and pharmacological properties Safety information After the product launches, each CCDS must be updated to reflect the product’s evolution. We can assist in updating the CCDS to show: New indications Changes in dosage and administration Changes in handling procedures Safety concerns Our service streamlines change requests to local labeling documents and the CCDS. We specialize in identifying labeling prospects in an existing portfolio, and we can provide strategic CCDS consulting. Our labeling service includes: Comparative analysis of local label content Preparation of a label comparison chart showing similarities and differences Evaluation of similarities and differences for inclusion in a CCDS Provision of guidance on additional CCDS elements required to meet regulatory requirements in all desired markets Creation of a draft CCDS and updates See All Regulatory Affairs Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/regulatory-affairs/labeling-and-artwork-management/
Labeling and Artwork Management | Clinchoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Regulatory Affairs » Labeling and Artwork Management Labeling and Artwork Management Our local and global labeling hubs create and maintain labels and artwork with unparalleled market intelligence, deep domain expertise, and deep product knowledge. ClinChoice’s experienced professionals develop and review all labeling documentation for US, EU, and Rest of World (ROW) markets. We provide efficient labeling and artwork management covering the review of product labels, non-labeling, and marketing collaterals like advertising, educational and promotional materials, and artwork change management. Artwork Creation Design of artwork components based on packaging specification, market requirement, and regulatory guidelines for labels/foils/cartons/leaflets/blisters/bottles/sachets or marketing materials Design and development of customized packaging artworks Incorporation of changes in existing products or rebranding per company and regulatory guidelines Inclusion of Braille in artworks Proof-reading Services Perform manual (character-by-character) and electronic proofing Verification of artwork compliance with regulatory guidelines Image-to-image comparison Product Information Services Development of Investigational Brochure (Core Safety Information) and Target Product Profiles Assistance to correct non-compliant proposed labeling content Labeling decision-making structure for development products and post-marketing labeling changes Labeling project management systems (management of requests, documentation of decisions, implementation tracking, and integration in product knowledge bases) Preparation of Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC), Patient Leaflets (PL), and mock-ups as per QRD Barcoding practices Product Information File (PIF) preparation Response to health authority questions on labeling and artwork Comparative analysis of local label content (gap analysis) Graphic and Label Design Patient information leaflets design Designing of brochures, flyers, danglers Region-specific linguistic capabilities Cover Page Design Design and layout creative services Product branding Newsletter creation Global Change Control Management Manage end-to-end process for documenting, approving, and implementing labeling changes per relevant local regulations Route the change control for review/approval through the system Provide change control status updates (as appropriate) to the relevant stakeholder(s) throughout the change control process Review all necessary data to have a complete understanding of the change control Conduct the labeling committee meeting to review the change control and seek approval from relevant cross-functional teams Promotional Material Review Work with local regulatory affiliates to review graphic, website, social media, and other promotional materials Ensure claims are reflective of regulatory classification Verification and finalization of regulatory information, including appropriate net contents, statement of identity, drug facts information, and ingredient lists See All Regulatory Affairs Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/regulatory-affairs/legal-entity-alignment/
Legal Entity Alignment | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Regulatory Affairs » Legal Entity Alignment Legal Entity Alignment ClinChoice understands the regulatory impact on products following a merger and acquisition (M&A) and can help maintain compliance throughout the transition. Mergers and acquisitions enable a company to stretch its competitive advantages across multiple markets and build comprehensive service portfolios through complimentary functional integrations. We help you achieve your integration goals with our expertise in managing large-scale pharmaceutical entity integrations. Our team of legal entity alignment experts understands the evolving regulatory environment and compliance requirements surrounding the M&A process and can help plan and manage the effort efficiently. We support your legal entity consolidation goals by helping to strategically integrate the marketing interests of holding authorities with required regulatory compliance. Through our centralized Regulatory Project Management office, we: Coordinate global product launch Schedule import-export timelines Manage risks around border hold policies Prioritize products across global markets Plan and execute global regulatory submissions We build an efficient collaboration framework integrating cross-functional activities throughout the transition period, thereby minimizing interruptions to business activities. Our legal entity alignment phase-wise services include: Planning Regulatory impact assessment Health authority documentation for legal entity change Planning for the scope of volume and nature of products Product pipeline review Analysis of development risks, milestones, and timelines Development plans for regional markets Artwork and Labeling CCDS support Label development CCDS and labeling reconciliation Proofreading of artwork texts Document authoring and submission Regulatory document preparation and submissions of variation application (including legal and administrative documents like CPP, FSC, LOA, POA, GMP, declaration letters) for several regions, including APAC, LATAM, EU, AFME, and North America Respond to health authority questions to ensure quick approval to reflect new marketing authorization holders Planning and coordination for sample submissions See All Regulatory Affairs Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/regulatory-affairs/regulatory-information-management/
Regulatory Information Management | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Regulatory Affairs » Regulatory Information Management Regulatory Information Management ClinChoice manages global regulatory information with expert technology prowess, a deep understanding of global and local regulations, and the best data management practices ClinChoice applies its expertise in regulatory affairs and technology to help organizations manage their regulatory data. Our consultants provide general data maintenance support in Regulatory Information Management System (RIMS) software to deliver solutions that will ensure application submission, approval, renewals on time, improve operational process efficiency and tracking. We provide the required support in management and control of the drug registration process, which helps the drug and medical device manufacturing companies to have: Visibility and tracking of all regulatory information Timely submissions of the application by affiliates Timely responses to questions Instant access to all regulatory information and documents quality and compliance With our help, organizations can develop short- and long-term strategies to meet submission timelines with minimal impact on day-to-day operations. We add value by improving data capture and submission processes while enabling sponsors to adapt to changes in regulations quickly. Our application management services include: Screen customization Configuration management Product validation Custom reports Third-party application management Dictionary management Database management Application server management Application administration Our data management services include: Request Analysis from local affiliates for record creation or updates Review of supporting documents for record creation or updates Data clean-up and maintenance at drug and registration level Ad-hoc and bulk license record changes from local affiliates or sponsors Fill in the required data in the software fields at the Drug Product and Registration level Maintain the Variations, Questions, and Commitments Updating local market registration data Local product name MAH License details Formulation Packaging Manufacturing Sites Application Submission Approval Marketing Launched Renewal and Withdrawn status and status dates Create the query to retrieve data output for customers’ requirements and generate report outputs to meet the business needs. Maintenance of additional data required for xEVMPD in EEA countries Perform xEVMPD data submission manually in EVWEB for scenarios not supported by RIMS Address queries from local and global teams Provide process and module-based training/workshops Our technical team’s expertise includes: Installation qualification Operational qualification IQ and OQ execution Validation summary reports See All Regulatory Affairs Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/regulatory-affairs/document-management/
Document Management | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Regulatory Affairs » Document Management Document Management ClinChoice provides efficient management of regulatory documents to accelerate the compilation of dossiers and compliance. Our document management specialists maintain the regulatory document repository for dossiers, labeling, variation and renewal files, correspondences, PSURs, and pharmacovigilance documents for all products. Our team has experience securely managing the document workflow, including managing the entire document lifecycle process and a wide range of business documents, including regulated environments. ClinChoice DMS specialists drive implementation and provide training to ensure regulatory compliance. Ensure the system is 21 CFR Part 11 compliant Support with Installation and Operational Qualification documentation Provide required technical support for implementation Develop training schedules and content Provide required maintenance support Our support activities include: Creation of electronic data mapping document Electronic data re-arrangement Paper scanning Paper scan data migration to document management systems Sourcing and review of data to be migrated Liaison with country affiliates for quality control of documents to be migrated Workshops for regulatory affiliates Response to queries from affiliates See All Regulatory Affairs Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/regulatory-affairs/product-registration-support/
Product Registration Support | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Regulatory Affairs » Product Registration Support Product Registration Support ClinChoice prepares and manages legal documents to new product and renewal registrations with an eye for detail and deep knowledge of global and regional regulations. The ClinChoice Product Registration and Legal Documentation team is experienced in preparing legal documents required for new registration and registration renewals. The team’s extensive knowledge of regulatory requirements of mature and developing markets form the foundation for the preparation of legal and administrative documents. ClinChoice supports the creation of legal and non-legal documents for new registrations, renewals, tender participation, and technology transfer, among other requirements. Our service offerings include: Preparation and review of legal documents, including: LOA POA LOD Undertaking declarations Formula pages One group certificates Manufacturing agreements QA certificates BSE GMP FDA print screen Third-party attestations Explanation letters ISO certificate Coordination with cross-functional teams for Labels and COA’s of API, Excipients, and Finished Product Coordination with cross-functional teams, manufacturing site, and local affiliates for the required information to process the documents Maintain work instructions and templates as needed Sourcing finished product samples, reference standards, and API from manufacturing sites and distributing centers Manage legalization through consular services Processes regulatory request by acting as a liaison with the requester, supplier, and consular services Liaise with the manufacturing sites and PCO to obtain information for regulatory submissions Support coordination and legalization of ad-hoc regional ancillary documents Support product portfolio through execution of legal document activities on existing and, as required, new product registrations in APAC, Latin and Central America, Caribbean, and EMEA region See All Regulatory Affairs Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/medical-device-regulatory-affairs/
Medical Device Regulatory Affairs | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Meet the Complex Challenges of Global Regulation and Develop Strategies to Minimize Risk and Maximize Benefit Regulatory Intelligence Collate and analyze the latest regulatory changes and their impact on product development and registration. Learn More Regulatory Compliance Establish processes and checks for compliance with mature and emerging market regulations. Learn More Regulatory Strategy Enter new markets and maintain registration statuses in existing markets with our expertise in complex regulations, product nuances, and health authority engagement. Learn More Product Registration Support Receive first-time-right product registration and maintenance submissions to health authorities worldwide. Learn More Technical Document Prep Get complex dossier and technical file development using the latest regulatory intelligence and industry-leading best practices. Learn More Artwork and Labeling Services Manage global and local labeling standards and enhance patient safety with high-quality artwork, labeling services, and flexible hybrid delivery models. Learn More Copy Review Development Ensure high-quality content development following stringent regulatory requirements with help from skilled, professional reviewers steeped in regulatory intelligence. Learn More Change Control Management Solve complex technical and digital change requirements and maintain an edge in global markets with fast, frustration-free medical device support capabilities. Learn More Publishing Receive full support with submission processes for medical devices throughout entire product lifecycles for multiple regions worldwide. Learn More EUDAMED Support Get support with EUDAMED regulatory data preparation, registration, and maintenance from ClinChoice regulatory strategists and in-country affiliates. Learn More See All Solutions Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/medical-device-regulatory-affairs/regulatory-compliance/
Regulatory Compliance | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Medical Device Regulatory Affairs » Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Compliance ClinChoice specialists leverage in-house regulatory intelligence and strategy teams to establish processes and checks for compliance with mature and emerging market regulations. Regulatory Gap Analysis Device suitability for therapeutic use; certification and re-certification of medical devices (CE marking, labeling, conformity assessments, import approvals) Presence of Systems for Compliance – Quality management system – QMS (gap analysis and implementation), Post-market surveillance system, Clinical evaluation and post-market clinical follow-up (PMCF) system, Vigilance system, Risk management system Labeling and unique device identification (UDI) implementation and maintenance EUDAMED submissions Economic Operator (EO) assessment Importer, distributor compliance Assessment of Design History Files Processes and People Clinical evaluation process Technical document and GSPR prep that meet EU MDR regulations based on device risk class Toxicologists to support biocompatibility risk assessment Human factor engineers to support usability studies See All Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/medical-device-regulatory-affairs/regulatory-strategy/
Regulatory Strategy | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Medical Device Regulatory Affairs » Regulatory Strategy Regulatory Strategy ClinChoice strategists help medical device innovators enter new markets and maintain their registration statuses in existing markets with a deep understanding of complex regulations, knowledge of product-specific nuances, and engagement with health authorities. Comprehensive Regulatory Strategy Solutions Strategy setup from the start of product development Market selection for first-launch based on regulatory complexity Recommendations for implementation of best practices that can be replicated to accelerate product registration in other markets Level of evidence needed based on the target market Competitive landscape and target market assessments to identify reasons for successes or complications Gap identification and providing a regulatory pathway to meet global or local product registration and maintenance requirements Documentation reviews for new and existing products including but not limited to: Device classification Predicate device Performance tests Pre-clinical data Clinical evidence Labeling claims Supporting literature Intended uses and clinical applications Evaluate existing technical files, design dossiers, clinical evidence (CERs), and quality management systems (QMS) to ascertain compliance with EU MDR and develop remedial plans as needed See All Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/medical-device-regulatory-affairs/registration-support/
Product Registration Support | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Medical Device Regulatory Affairs » Registration Support Registration Support ClinChoice leverages its team of regulatory strategists and in-country affiliates for first-time-right product registration and maintenance submissions to health authorities. Complete Registration Support Services Preparation of regulatory documentation and submissions for product registrations and listings in country-specific formats Expertise preparing: Pre-submission support documents 510(k) premarket notifications Investigational device exemption applications Premarket approval applications (PMA) 513(g) requests for classification De Novo classification applications Submission of regulatory documentation and applications through health authority portals Assessment of design history file (DHF) and review of clinical, safety, and risk documents Support for registration of local and foreign establishments in new markets before product registration Comprehensive support for ISO 13485 certification to aid product registration in specific markets Authoring of standard operating procedures and detailed work instructions to accelerate the creation of regulatory documents and submissions for different countries Organization of documents for product registration in the QMS to reduce authoring time and shorter response time to health authority queries Support for creation of legal documents for import and export based on country-specific requirements Preparation of new or upgrading of existing clinical evaluation and technical documents See All Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/medical-device-regulatory-affairs/technical-document-submission-approval-preparation/
Technical Document Submission & Approval Prep | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Medical Device Regulatory Affairs » Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation ClinChoice’s experienced teams lead complex dossiers and technical file development using the latest regulatory intelligence and industry-leading best practices. End-to-End Technical Document Support Collation and organization of data for technical documentation, GSPR, and clinical evaluation Authoring of technical documentation and GSPR in alignment with EU MDR and global regulations Toxicologist support with biocompatibility risk assessments Human-factor engineer support with usability studies Information reviews related to the design, function, performance, composition, use, claims, and clinical evaluations and ensure compliance with regulatory requirements Review of dossier structures per the regulations of different countries and regions Gap analysis to identify documentation deficiencies, including those related to: Device identification Description Intended use Artwork and Labeling Manufacturing information Risk management files Post-marketing surveillance Verification and validation of the device Review of clinical data and compilation of the Clinical Evaluation Report (CER) Development and assessment of risk management files, product specifications including labels, and Instructions for Use Compilation of documentation and specifications required for medical device manufacturing See All Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/medical-device-regulatory-affairs/artwork-labeling-services/
Medical Device Labeling & Artwork Services | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Medical Device Regulatory Affairs » Artwork & Labeling Services Artwork & Labeling Services ClinChoice provides high-quality artwork and labeling services with hybrid delivery models to manage global and local labeling requirements that meet regulatory standards and enhance patient safety. Our In-house Artwork & Labeling Services Include: End-to-end artwork development: application of regulatory intelligence, content creation, graphic design, proof-reading, updates to existing artworks, and review of new and existing artwork Authoring, review, updates, and maintenance of instructions for use Creation and maintenance of global and local labels Review and update of existing labels for compliance with regulations, appropriate usage of symbols, clarity of information provided in instructions for use and user manuals, including installation and maintenance manuals Review for appropriateness of the medium, format, content, legibility, and location of the label and instructions for use Roadmap development for content reuse for labels to reduce development and roll-out time Development of standard operating procedures (SOPs) for labeling and artwork operations Unique Device Identification (UDI) implementation and maintenance services See All Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/medical-device-regulatory-affairs/copy-review-development/
Regulatory Copy Review Services | Copy Development | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Medical Device Regulatory Affairs » Copy Review Development Copy Review Development ClinChoice offers skilled, professional reviewers steeped in regulatory intelligence who ensure high-quality content that meets the most stringent regulatory requirements. Specialized Regulatory Copy Review Services Collaboration with local regulatory compliance affiliates to review graphics, website, social media, and other promotional material to ensure completeness and accuracy Assessment of all content for regulatory compliance and claims substantiation Confirm compliance claims with regulatory classification Verification and finalization of regulatory information Review and final approval for revised product artwork on primary, secondary, and tertiary labeling Review product artwork on websites, social, promotional, and advertising content for updates See All Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/medical-device-regulatory-affairs/change-control-management/
Change Control Management | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Medical Device Regulatory Affairs » Change Control Management Change Control Management ClinChoice offers best-in-class capabilities to support medical device innovators with complex technical and digital change requirements and maintain an edge in global markets quickly and frustration-free. Full-service Change Control Management Solutions Benefit-risk assessment of proposed changes based on the criticality Assessment of the proposed changes to determine cost, effort, risk, and impact on product specifications, operations, and regulatory compliance Documentation of analysis and decisions of various stakeholders with evidence for design controls and design changes to ensure alignment with business and market needs while maintaining regulatory compliance Collaboration with multiple departments to collate documents for the closure of change requests Creation of templates for gathering information for procedures, processes, and product specifications Authoring of justification to implement the necessary changes in compliance with regulatory requirements Preparation of change packets for submission to health authorities or notified bodies Responses to health authorities or notified body queries Support for changes in verification and validation of product design and manufacturing specifications See All Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/medical-device-regulatory-affairs/publishing/
Publishing | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Medical Device Regulatory Affairs » Publishing Publishing ClinChoice’s publishing teams support the submission processes for medical devices throughout entire product lifecycles for multiple regions worldwide. Global Medical Device Document Publishing Solutions Regulatory Publishing Strategy Regulatory documentation submission services to notified bodies and health authorities Paper to electronic file format conversion in compliance with regional and national regulations Submission readiness reviews using custom quality checklists for compliance with electronic document standards Publishing of clinical reports Document-level and submission-level publishing including but not limited to conversion, optimization, OCR, bookmarking, hyperlinking, document properties, quality review, and validation Gateway submission management to different health authorities, including FDA, TGA, EMA, and other countries See All Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/medical-device-regulatory-affairs/eudamed-support/
EUDAMED Support | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Medical Device Regulatory Affairs » EUDAMED Support EUDAMED Support The European Database for Medical Devices (EUDAMED) ClinChoice leverages dedicated teams of in-house regulatory strategists and in-country affiliates who support the preparation, registration, and maintenance of regulatory data in EUDAMED. Complete EUDAMED Support Solutions Complete assessment of supply chain and regulatory activities required to support the submission of data to EUDAMED Inventory of medical devices subject to EUDAMED regulatory requirements for further assessment Assessment and submittal of data for registration of certain European Economic Operators (EO) to obtain Actor Identifier/Single Registration Number (Actor ID/SRN) for each role Identify and support process improvements to support the submission of appropriate data in EUDAMED Assess the overall readiness of the organization to meet EU regulatory reporting requirements See All Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Areas Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/medical-affairs/
Medical Affairs Services | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Medical Affairs Medical Affairs Effectively Manage Internal & External Stakeholder Engagement Needs Medical affairs is a multi-faceted functional area with activities spread across regulatory affairs, pharmacovigilance , post-marketing studies, and brand sales and marketing. In all stages and at all aspects of a product’s lifecycle and commercial processes, medical affairs fosters significant value. It helps build a company’s scientific and medical credibility, and even enhances their brand reputation. ClinChoice delivers expert medical affairs solutions with a wide range of innovative and technology-driven services. You get the experience and flexibility you need to build an integrated medical brand, deliver relevant and accurate science, and develop scientific publication plans to ensure patient safety and market success. Flexible Medical Affairs Management Solutions Support for Post-Approval Regulatory Requirements Post-Marketing Studies Medical Information Health Economics & Outcomes Research (HEOR) Medical & Scientific communication See All Solutions Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/medical-writing/
Medical Writing Service Solutions | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Medical Writing Medical Writing Develop Protocols, Informed Consent Forms, Clinical Study Reports, and More Medical writing plays a crucial role in drug development, and ClinChoice is committed to assisting in the creation of all study-related documents. Regulatory agencies demand accurate, error-free documentation and reporting, and the consequences of rejection are lost time and revenues. With ClinChoice, you get exceptional medical writers who help compile, organize, write, edit, and produce an array of medical and scientific documents. No matter how large or small your writing project, we deliver accurate results with rapid turnaround and exceptional quality control. All of our medical writing services are available on a project basis or as part of an end-to-end solution for an entire clinical program. Comprehensive Medical Writing Solutions Protocols ICFs CSRs Pharmacovigilance reports Clinical sections of common technical documents (CTDs) and new drug applications (NDAs) Investigator brochures and annual updates Benefit/risk assessment reports Medical and scientific literature reviews See All Solutions Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/pharmacology-toxicology/
Pharmacology & Toxicology Solutions | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Pharmacology & Toxicology Pharmacology & Toxicology Cosmetics, Consumer Products, & Chemicals Safety Solutions ClinChoice researchers, pharmacologists, and toxicologists ensure your products comply with the varying global regulations for quality, safety, efficacy, and labeling. Our science-based assessments support ongoing and new business initiatives, and we’re experienced with both large-scale reformulation programs involving hundreds of products and short timelines. Our toxicology services are available individually or as part of an end-to-end solution. Comprehensive Pharmacology & Toxicology Solutions Cosmetics and consumer product safety evaluations Regulatory information management , including product files for ingredient manufacturers and formulators All toxicology services in compliance with EU cosmetic regulation EC 1223/2009 Expansive chemical compliance management services Reviews and assessments of non-animal-based safety assessment methodologies Exhaustive reviews of data from raw material suppliers and published literature See All Solutions Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/quality-compliance/
Quality & Compliance Solutions | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Quality & Compliance Quality Compliance Achieve Regulatory Standards & Audit Expectations To meet increasing standards of quality, risk obligations, and compliance, modern organizations face immense pressure to keep up with global regulatory standards and audit expectations. At ClinChoice, we know the risk of business disruptions and unnecessary overhead resulting from inadequate audit preparation or non-compliance. Our quality, risk, and compliance solutions remain minimally intrusive while providing confidence in your compliance and audit-readiness anytime, anywhere. Comprehensive Quality & Compliance Solutions Computer system validation Assessment and advisory services Enterprise risk management Process re-engineering and consulting Audit preparedness See All Solutions Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/technology/
Technology Solutions | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Technology Technology Unlock the Full Potential of Your Technology Systems ClinChoice technology solutions enable sponsors to derive full value from their systems. Our expertise in existing and emerging technologies, product development, and global regulatory affairs ensure your applications are optimized, validated, and fully compliant. Our services optimize the use of technology and related tools to facilitate your company’s growth. We’re committed to understanding the specific requirements of your business and applying technology solutions, support, and best practices that empower you to achieve more, sooner. Comprehensive Technology Solutions Application management Implementation and upgrades Validation Managed hosting Business accelerator development See All Solutions Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/scientific-strategic-consulting/
Scientific & Strategic Consulting Solutions | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Scientific & Strategic Consulting Scientific & Strategic Consulting An End-to-End Approach to Global Product Development ClinChoice scientific and strategic consultants help companies develop end-to-end approaches to global product development that integrate your clinical and commercial considerations. Composed of highly seasoned professionals, our consulting team is backed by exceptional academic credentials and solid industry experience. Our consultants provide expert guidance concerning business market intelligence and strategy , as well as clinical, regulatory, operations, technology, and safety considerations. The team is integrated cross-functionally with all ClinChoice teams, enabling them to draw on an exceptional depth and breadth of resources to produce best-in-class recommendations for the most complex challenges. Pharmaceuticals Biologics Medical Devices Combination Products Consumer Health Products Cosmetics Comprehensive Scientific & Strategic Consulting Solutions Strategic consulting to minimize risk and maximize return on investment Global project management Audit preparedness Due diligence Market intelligence Regulatory affairs consulting, including review of protocols, informed consent forms, reports, and applications Interpretation of agency rulings, policies, and guidelines SOP review Reformulation strategies, particularly on large projects with short timelines Strategies to maximize labeling claims Data analysis Toxicology assessment Guidance on import/export procedures Recall advice and assistance Advisory board membership See All Solutions Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/therapeutic-areas/
Therapeutic Areas of Expertise | Therapeutic Area Experts | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas ClinChoice’s therapeutic expertise spans large drug and disease markets, including oncology, neurology, and ophthalmology, as well as metabolic, respiratory, autoimmune, and other conditions. Backed by 25 years of proven results, we provide services for the full development lifecycle to six of the top 10 pharmaceutical companies and startup biotechs, completing thousands of projects and nearly 50 NDA submissions. For us, our record of quality means integrity and stability. For you, it means a reliable partner and quality results. With a flexible approach and ease of doing business, carefully crafted methodologies for fast startup and rapid timelines, and the right team of industry and medical experts, ClinChoice is the right choice to streamline and accelerate your therapeutic studies and trials. Oncology Conduct comprehensive research through a collaborative network to aid in the progress of drug discovery and development and clinical investigations into cancerous tissues. Learn More Neurology From navigating complex protocols to finding eligible patients, we enable your neurological studies to progress faster and more effectively against challenging neurological conditions. Learn More Metabolic Our experienced team helps you streamline processes and avoid issues and setbacks related to complex regulations in metabolic and endocrine studies. Learn More Respiratory From single protocol studies to comprehensive development programs, we’re deeply experienced in managing and monitoring the unique procedures, objectives, and endpoints of respiratory therapy trials. Learn More Autoimmune Though the development of autoimmune therapies often presents significant challenges, we provide the ongoing monitoring and support you need for successful clinical trials, biomarkers, and data science services. Learn More Ophthalmology With experience in a broad range of ophthalmological trials, we aid in all phases of research in studies of all sizes, all around the world to help achieve advancements in vision and eye care. Learn More Musculoskeletal From treating and relieving chronic pain to addressing common conditions like strains and sprains, our processes for musculoskeletal research enable you to bring your products to market quickly and safely. Learn More Urology A global network of experienced urologists, nephrologists, and OB/GYNs ensures you get the professional insight it takes to meet your program objectives, and the challenges of urologic studies are handled properly. Learn More Anti-Infective Achieving regulatory requirements for anti-infective medications poses significant challenges, but our customized, streamlined patient services and network of medical professionals help you bring products to market faster. Learn More Rare Disease Find eligible patients for rare disease treatments and carry out complex, global studies of any length with help from our experienced team of medical professionals and data management and analysis specialists. Learn More Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/therapeutic-areas/anti-infective/
Anti-Infective Trials & Studies | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Therapeutic Areas » Anti-Infective Anti-Infective Flexible & Efficient Anti-Infective Research Trials With decades of service in the industry, ClinChoice has developed a highly specialized level of experience in managing clinical studies and trials for anti-infectives. This deep experience enables us to quickly develop and customize efficient processes for your programs that can significantly speed up time to market for your products. Common Areas of Anti-Infective Study Amebicides Aminoglycosides Anthelmintics Antifungals Antimalarial Agents Antituberculosis Agents Antiviral Agents Carbapenems Cephalosporins Glycopeptide Antibiotics Glycylcyclines Leprostatics Lincomycin Derivatives Macrolide Derivatives Oxazolidinone Antibiotics Penicillin Quinolones Streptogramins Sulfonamides Tetracyclines Comprehensive Solutions for Anti-Infective Trials & Studies Proven Record of Quality & Results Flexible Approach & Agile Solutions Rapid Project Startup & Timelines Dedicated Team from Start to Finish See All Therapeutic Areas Contact Us Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/therapeutic-areas/autoimmune-diseases/
Autoimmune Disease Trials & Studies | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Therapeutic Areas » Autoimmune Diseases Autoimmune Diseases Streamlined Solutions for Highly Tailored Autoimmune Therapies A thorough understanding of the complexities of autoimmune diseases enables ClinChoice to successfully manage studies and trials in all stages of the treatment development cycle. From early phases to approval to post-market, we anticipate challenges and strategize solutions to proactively address ever-changing regulations and processes with an experienced team of more than 4,000 industry and medical professionals. Common Areas of Autoimmune Disease Study Addison Disease Celiac Disease Dermatomyositis Graves Disease Hashimoto Thyroiditis Multiple Sclerosis Myasthenia Gravis Pernicious Anemia Reactive Arthritis Rheumatoid Arthritis Sjogren Syndrome Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Comprehensive Solutions for Autoimmune Trials & Studies Proven Record of Quality & Results Flexible Approach & Agile Solutions Rapid Project Startup & Timelines Dedicated Team from Start to Finish See All Therapeutic Areas Contact Us Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/therapeutic-areas/covid-19/
COVID-19 - ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These
cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more
personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To
find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track
your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your
preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked
to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you
get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About
ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions
Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data
Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical
Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate
Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk
Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance
System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC)
Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical
Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing
Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions
Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core
Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity
Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product
Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence
Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical
Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy
Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support
Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance
Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic
Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic
Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory
Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-
World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products
Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact
China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources
About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit
RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships
Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics
Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations
Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug
Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal
Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data
Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management
Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO)
Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature
Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market
Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion
Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management
Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory
Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support
Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory
Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document
Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review
Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical
Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance
Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic
Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic
Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory
Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-
World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products
Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Therapeutic Areas »
COVID-19 COVID-19 Vaccine Studies In 2020, the world faced an unprecedented
global pandemic. As the COVID-19 virus quickly spread across states, nations,
and continents, time was a critical factor. Humanity needed to develop a
vaccine for this virus faster than had ever been done before. To date,
ClinChoice has supported thirteen COVID-19 vaccine studies, comprised of over
148,000 total patients across seven countries. ClinChoice has helped sponsors
overcome the unique challenges and complexities presented by COVID-19 trials
with innovative strategies and technologies for faster, more accurate data
capture and analysis. We understand the importance of having a team you can
depend on, and our solutions include access to industry professionals with
hands-on COVID-19 experience. When it comes to COVID-19 trials, speed is often
a necessity. Our teams work tirelessly to ensure key deliverables are met in
increasingly challenging timelines with the utmost dedication and
collaboration. We constantly go above and beyond to raise the standard of
excellence in supporting clinical trials for COVID-19. Our teams are committed
to contributing to a healthier and safer world by accelerating the development
and commercialization of COVID-19 vaccines and innovative treatments. COVID-19
Experience By the numbers Vaccine Experience 13 Studies conducted or ongoing
with four vaccine candidates 148K More than 148,000 Patients enrolled to date
460+ More than 460 collaborations with sites in seven countries 10+ Regulatory
submissions, incl. US, UK, EMA, Canada, South Africa, Argentina, Brazil,
India, WHO Treatment Experience 13 Studies conducted or ongoing in treatment
protocols and/or observational research 15K More than 15,115 Patients enrolled
to date 516+ More than 516 collaborations with sites in seven countries 50+
More than 50 Countries in NA, EU, APAC, and LATAM See All Therapeutic Areas
Contact Us Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service
global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute
to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven
quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible
approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines.
Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort
Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin
International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone
+86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy
Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This
site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience.
Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified
on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not
impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and
device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie
Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/therapeutic-areas/metabolic/
Metabolic Disorders: CRO for Metabolic Clinical Trials | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Therapeutic Areas » Metabolic Metabolic Disorders: CRO for Metabolic Clinical Trials Full-Service CRO for Nutritional & Metabolic Disorder Trials With more than 25 years of clinical research and data analysis expertise, ClinChoice’s Metabolic CRO services enable pharmaceutical companies to bring innovative products to market on rapid timelines. We provide localized Metabolic Disease CRO services through a global network that assists in trials and post-approval activity across the Americas, Europe, and Asia. This methodology equips us with the resources and delivery centers necessary to quickly coordinate and deploy teams who can consistently work on your project. It’s the way we meet aggressive timelines without compromising quality. Contact us to learn more or schedule a consultation. Common Areas of Metabolic Study Type 1 Diabetes Type 2 Diabetes Cystic Fibrosis Gaucher’s Disease Glucose Galactose Malabsorption Hemochromatosis Hereditary Hemochromatosis Phenylketonuria (PKU) Sickle Cell Anemia Diabetes CRO Diabetes is one of the largest epidemics of the 21st century. ClinChoice is a global leader in Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes studies with established relationships with diabetes advocacy groups worldwide. Our team of experts understands the endocrine system and how the slightest shift in functions can cause life-threatening imbalances that can affect growth, development, and metabolism and is committed to helping seek solutions to help mitigate this widespread illness. Our CRO Services Include: Regulatory affairs Clinical operations Site selection and activation Site management Data management and monitoring Biostatistics Medical writing Clinical supply and drug logistics Get a Convenient & Flexible CRO Experience Our decade-long client partnerships are built on a flexible approach and ease of doing business. Whether for an enterprise-wide global program or single-site study, you’re never stifled by bureaucracy or a rigid, one-size-fits-all model. Our CRO approach is tailored to you and your program: Need to ramp up or down? No problem. Have a last-minute request or change to your trial plan? We’re flexible. To meet the needs of our fast-moving industry, ClinChoice is built on agile business methodologies, solutions, and technologies, centered around your needs. Our deep analyst experience has earned us a 100% acceptance rate on thousands of CDISC compliant datasets to the FDA and allows us to do the same for you. See All Therapeutic Areas Contact Us Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/therapeutic-areas/musculoskeletal/
Musculoskeletal Trials & Studies | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Therapeutic Areas » Musculoskeletal Musculoskeletal Flexible & Efficient Musculatory Research Trials With decades of service in the industry, ClinChoice has developed a highly specialized level of experience in managing musculoskeletal clinical studies and trials. This deep experience enables us to quickly develop and customize efficient processes for your programs that can significantly speed up time to market for your products. Common Areas of Musculoskeletal Study Carpal Tunnel Syndrome Tendonitis Muscle or Tendon Strain Ligament Sprain Tension Neck Syndrome Thoracic Outlet Compression Rotator Cuff Tendonitis Epicondylitis Radial Tunnel Syndrome Digital Neuritis Trigger Finger DeQuervain’s Syndrome Mechanical Back Syndrome Degenerative Disc Disease Ruptured and Herniated Discs Comprehensive Solutions for Musculoskeletal Trials & Studies Proven Record of Quality & Results Flexible Approach & Agile Solutions Rapid Project Startup & Timelines Dedicated Team from Start to Finish See All Therapeutic Areas Contact Us Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/therapeutic-areas/cns-cro-neurology/
CNS CRO | CNS Clinical Trials | Neurology CRO | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Therapeutic Areas » Neurology Neurology & CNS CRO CNS Clinical Trials Your Easily Scalable, Full-Service CRO With more than 25 years of expertise in clinical research and data analysis, ClinChoice’s neurology and CNS CRO solutions enable pharmaceutical companies to bring innovative products to market on rapid timelines. We provide localized neurology and CNS CRO services through a global network that assists in trials and post-approval activity across the Americas, Europe, and Asia. This methodology equips us with the resources and delivery centers necessary to quickly coordinate and deploy teams who can consistently work on your project. It’s the way we meet aggressive timelines without compromising quality. Contact us to learn more or schedule a consultation . Neurology & CNS Clinical Trial & Research Specialists With ClinChoice, you get more than just another neurology and CNS CRO. You gain access to industry experts committed to true partnership and collaboration to deliver fast, accurate results. Our experts help accelerate drug and medical device approvals to market by deploying a unique global methodology that enables us to rapidly start projects and fulfill fast timelines. ClinChoice provides access to more than 4,000 dedicated industry professionals who are committed to your success. Experienced and with outstanding academic credentials, our team is the one you want working on your neurological trials and studies, no matter how large or small. In an industry where turnover is high, we’re proud to have built a company and culture where our people advance, thrive, and stay. Our low turnover rates translate into a more experienced team, consistent quality, and dedicated project management that will support your study’s minute details and big picture from start to finish. Common Areas of Neurological Study Alzheimer’s Disease Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) Ataxia Bell’s Palsy Brain tumors Epilepsy & Seizures Headaches Schizophrenia Depressive Disorder Meningitis Multiple Sclerosis (MS) Muscular Dystrophy Neurocutaneous Syndromes Parkinson’s Disease Progressive Muscular Atrophy (PMA) Stroke Get a Convenient & Flexible CRO Experience Our decade-long client partnerships are built on a flexible approach and ease of doing business. Whether for an enterprise-wide global program or single-site study, you’re never stifled by bureaucracy or a rigid, one-size-fits-all model. Our CRO approach is tailored to you and your program: Need to ramp up or down? No problem. Have a last-minute request or change to your trial plan? We’re flexible. In an industry as fast-moving as ours, we built our business, solutions, and technology to be agile, with your needs at the center. Our deep oncological and data management and analyst experience have earned us a 100% acceptance rate on thousands of CDISC compliant datasets to the FDA and allow us to do the same for you. See All Areas of Expertise Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/therapeutic-areas/oncology-cro/
Oncology CRO | Oncological Research & Clinical Trials | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Therapeutic Areas » Oncology Oncology CRO Services Your Easily Scalable, Full-Service CRO With a vast pool of expertise in oncological therapeutic research and decades of data management and analysis experience, ClinChoice stands a step above other CROs in providing comprehensive study and trial management in oncology. ClinChoice overcomes the unique challenges and complexities presented by oncology trials with innovative strategies and technologies for faster, more accurate data capture and analysis. We understand the importance of having a team you can depend on, and our solutions include access to industry professionals with extensive oncology experience. Whether it’s a single-site study or an expansive global research program, we tailor each aspect of our services to the unique needs, scale, and scope of your program. Contact us to learn more or schedule a consultation . Oncology Clinical Trial & Research Specialists With ClinChoice, you gain access to industry experts committed to true partnership and collaboration to deliver fast, accurate results. Our experts help accelerate drug and medical device approvals to market by deploying a unique global methodology that enables us to rapidly start projects and fulfill fast timelines. ClinChoice provides access to more than 4,000 dedicated industry professionals who are committed to your success. Experienced and with outstanding academic credentials, our team is the one you want to work on your oncology studies, no matter how large or small. In an industry where turnover is high, we’re proud to have built a company and culture where our people advance, thrive, and stay. Our low turnover rates translate into a more experienced team, consistent quality, and dedicated project management that will support your study’s minute details and big picture from start to finish. Common Areas of Study Oncological Study Hematological Disorders Skin Cancer Prostate Cancer Liver Cancer Breast Cancer Multiple Myeloma GI Cancer Lymphoma Leukemia Lung Cancer Have a Convenient & Flexible CRO Experience Our decade-long client partnerships are built on a flexible approach and ease of doing business. Clinical development should not be difficult. Whether for an enterprise-wide global program or single-site study, you’re never stifled by bureaucracy or a rigid, one-size-fits-all model. Our CRO approach is tailored to you and your program: Need to ramp up or down? No problem. Have a last-minute request or change to your trial plan? We’re flexible. In an industry as fast-moving as ours, we built our business, solutions, and technology to be agile, with your needs at the center. Our deep oncological and data management and analyst experience have earned us a 100% acceptance rate on thousands of CDISC compliant datasets to the FDA and allow us to do the same for you. See All Areas of Expertise Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/therapeutic-areas/ophthalmology/
Ophthalmology Trials & Studies | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Therapeutic Areas » Ophthalmology Ophthalmology Proven Results in High-Quality Ophthalmology Trials With decades of service in the industry, ClinChoice has developed a highly specialized level of experience in managing ophthalmological clinical studies and trials. This deep experience enables us to quickly create and customize efficient processes for your programs that can significantly speed up time to market for your products. Common Areas of Ophthalmological Study Amblyopia Cataracts Diabetic Retinopathy Glaucoma Macular Degeneration Refractive Errors Strabismus Comprehensive Solutions for Ophthalmology Trials & Studies Proven Record of Quality & Results Flexible Approach & Agile Solutions Rapid Project Startup & Timelines Dedicated Team from Start to Finish See All Therapeutic Areas Contact Us Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/therapeutic-areas/rare-disease/
Rare Disease Treatment Trials & Studies | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Therapeutic Areas » Rare Disease Rare Disease Flexible Efficient Rare Disease Research Trials The challenges that rare diseases present the medical community are significant, and thorough research and intelligent testing are critical to finding safe and successful treatments. With a highly specialized level of experience in managing clinical studies and trials for a wide range of rare diseases, ClinChoice is the ideal development partner for your research. Our extensive experience in rare diseases and strategies for engaging small, widely dispersed sets of patients enables us to quickly develop efficient custom processes that can significantly speed up time to market for your products. Areas of Study in Rare Disease Therapy ALS Treatments Cystic Fibrosis Treatments Gene Therapies High-Risk Brain Tumor Treatments Prader-Willi Syndrome Rare Cancers Rare Rashes & Skin Conditions Systemic Scleroderma Treatments Comprehensive Solutions for Rare Disease Treatment Trials & Studies Proven Record of Quality & Results Flexible Approach & Agile Solutions Rapid Project Startup & Timelines Dedicated Team from Start to Finish See All Therapeutic Areas Contact Us Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/therapeutic-areas/respiratory/
Respiratory Trials & Studies | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Therapeutic Areas » Respiratory Respiratory & Pulmonary CRO Services ClinChoice provides full-service CRO solutions for respiratory and pulmonary clinical research trials at every stage of development. With a deep level of experience and expertise in pulmonary research, clinical data management, and analysis, ClinChoice is your complete source for respiratory and pulmonary CRO services. Respiratory Clinical Trials & Research ClinChoice offers innovative clinical trial and research strategies and technologies that deliver faster and more accurate results. Gain access to experienced industry professionals who take a collaborative approach to working with your team. ClinChoice is more than just another CRO; we’re your true respiratory CRO partner Flexible & Experienced Pulmonary CRO Specialists Backed by decades of pulmonary CRO experience at every phase of trials, our respiratory clinical research associates (CRAs) provide tailored solutions to meet your study’s unique needs. Rely on us for customized pulmonary CRO solutions for pharmaceutical products and devices and bring life-changing products to market faster. Comprehensive Respiratory Trial Expertise Acute and Chronic Sinusitis Allergic Rhinitis (Seasonal & Perennial) Asthma (Mild to Severe) Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) Cystic Fibrosis Emphysema Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis Malignant Neoplasm of the Trachea, Bronchus, & Lung See All Therapeutic Areas Contact Us Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/therapeutic-areas/urology/
Urology Trials & Studies | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Therapeutic Areas » Urology Urology Flexible & Efficient Urology Research Trials With decades of service providing complete CRO solutions, ClinChoice has extensive, specialized experience in planning, managing, and executing urology clinical studies and trials. This deep experience enables us to quickly develop and customize efficient processes for your programs that can significantly speed up time to market for your products. Common Areas of Urology Study Acute Cystitis Bladder Stones Kidney Stones Pyelonephritis Renal Cell Carcinoma Sexually Transmitted Infections Transitional Cell Carcinoma Urethritis Urinary Incontinence Urinary Tract Infections Comprehensive Solutions for Urology Trials & Studies Proven Record of Quality & Results Flexible Approach & Agile Solutions Rapid Project Startup & Timelines Dedicated Team from Start to Finish See All Therapeutic Areas Contact Us Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/expertise/
Expertise | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Expertise Expertise ClinChoice provides full-service Phase I-IV solutions that are designed from the ground up with efficient planning and execution that allows you to bring life-changing products to market faster. We consult with you at every step of the journey, leveraging our expertise and resources to help you advance your development programs. With a global network of medical professionals, eligible patients, and the right technology in place, ClinChoice enables you to carry out critical research and get people the treatments and therapies they need. Free Consultation Early Development Critical early clinical development solutions to expedite the development of lifesaving drugs and medical devices with accurate and intelligent planning and decision-making. Learn More Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Expertise and development in new drugs, biologics, and medical devices, as well as helping sponsors overcome the various challenges of global clinical programs. Learn More Consumer Products Exploring new, more optimal paths to meet the varying, immediate requirements of your consumers while also anticipating new market trends. Learn More Vaccines Advance public health in the fight against global diseases with expert study design, site selection, recruitment, analysis, and project management solutions. Learn More Medical Devices Flexible expertise for expert medical device study design, testing, and evaluations, while leveraging the right resources to fully optimize your product from beginning to end. Learn More Real-World Evidence Accurate monitoring and analysis of real-world evidence to ensure your products are as effective as possible by evaluating interventions combined with environmental factors. Learn More Natural Products Application management for natural medicines around the world, including traditional Chinese medicine, Indian Buddhist medicine, African medicine, and more. Learn More Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/expertise/early-development/
Early Development | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Expertise » Early Development Early Development Build a Solid Foundation for Your Full Development Process Early clinical development is critical to expediting the development of lifesaving drugs and medical devices. It links preclinical research and translational medicine to clinical development efforts and integrated existing clinical data to help make accurate, intelligent decisions. The ClinChoice early development team develops customized approaches for overcoming the challenges of all types of studies taking place all around the world. Backed by decades of experience, we maximize the overall efficiency of your program while strictly controlling risk. Comprehensive Early Research, Design, & Execution Expertise Phase I, first-in-human Phase IIa, proof-of-concept Clinical PK/PD Bioanalytical and biomarkers Bioequivalence studies See All Areas of Expertise Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/expertise/phase-ii-iv-clinical-trials/
Phase II-IV Clinical Trials | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Expertise » Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Leading Global Clinical Development Programs ClinChoice has deep expertise in facilitating Phase II-IV clinical trials for new drugs, biologics, and medical devices. We help sponsors with multiple clinical development challenges in global clinical programs through strong clinical operation capability. Our international experience enables you to optimize clinical operations to reduce risk and lower costs. Broad Range of Indications Oncology Autoimmune Anti-infective Neurology Ophthalmology Rare Diseases Metabolic Musculoskeletal Respiratory Urology Comprehensive Early Research, Design, & Execution Expertise Phase IIa, proof-of-concept Clinical PK/PD Bioanalytical and biomarkers Bioequivalence studies See All Areas of Expertise Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/expertise/real-world-evidence/
Real-World Evidence | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Expertise » Real-World Evidence Real-World Evidence (RWE) Evaluate Patient Treatment With Respect to Their Environment ClinChoice has a deep level of expertise in monitoring and analyzing RWE to ensure that your products are designed to be as effective as possible. RWE enables you to accurately evaluate the treatment of patients with interventions combined with the external environment. This systematic collection and analysis of real-world data generated by clinical practice helps demonstrate whether or not a therapy can be truly effective as a medical treatment. From concept to market, our RWE expertise helps your stakeholders make the prompt, insightful decisions. See All Areas of Expertise Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/expertise/vaccines/
Vaccines | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Expertise » Vaccines Vaccines Advancing the Fight Against Diseases Around the World ClinChoice brings a wealth of expertise in vaccine studies dealing with public health and the fight against deadly and disabling diseases all around the world. From study design and site selection to subject recruitment, data analysis, and flawless project execution, ClinChoice accelerates vaccine development while enabling you to meet all the requirements of your sponsors. Comprehensive Vaccine Expertise Project Management Training Study Procedure Design On-site Management Vaccine Management Core Document Design Quality Control Communications Vaccine Project Management Project See All Areas of Expertise Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/expertise/medical-devices/
Medical Devices | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Expertise » Medical Devices Medical Devices Ease the Complex Challenges of Medical Devices Studies Medical device research is broad, challenging, and rapidly increasing in complexity, making it an incredibly demanding area of study for blind, random, and controlled testing. ClinChoice brings the unique experience and flexible expertise it takes while leveraging the right resources to fully optimize your product from beginning to end. Unlike drug development, regulatory bodies allow medical devices to be refined whenever there’s good evidence to support a design change or modification. We focus on the feedback your product and organization receive to help maximize efficiency in your medical device designs at every phase. Comprehensive Solutions for Medical Device Trials & Studies Independent SOP solutions for medical device trials MD project experience, including RA strategies, CER writing, and clinical trials Dedicated project management team and MD MD Projects Experience 2018-2022 See All Areas of Expertise Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/expertise/consumer-products/
Consumer Product | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Expertise » Consumer Products Consumer Products Meet the Ever-changing Requirements of Your Customers ClinChoice’s consumer product expertise brings modern solutions to address the needs of modern society. Consumer health awareness and behaviors evolve and change rapidly, and the healthcare industry demands that product manufacturers stay up to date. We enable you to discover new, more optimal paths to meet the varying, immediate requirements of your consumers while also anticipating new market trends. Comprehensive Consumer Product Expertise Discover new opportunities Faster innovation Effective communication and regulatory navigation See All Areas of Expertise Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/expertise/natural-products/
Natural Products | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Expertise » Natural Products Natural Products Natural Medicinal Methods Backed By Modern Medical Science Natural medicines are those substances and preparations are those sourced from plants, animals, and minerals, and generally don’t include any genetically modified materials, fermented substances, or chemically modified substances. At ClinChoice, we have extensive expertise in managing the application system for using natural medicines, including: Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) Indian Buddhist medicine Islamic medicine European traditional herbal medicine South American ethnic medicine African ethnic medicine Comprehensive Support for TCM Studies TCM has been integral to Chinese culture for more than 5,000 years and has wide acceptance among the general population as both therapeutic agents and natural supplements. Considered an essential component of traditional Chinese culture, TCM has recently experienced a renaissance that reflects China’s rise in economic power and political influence. Recently, the Chinese central government has made efforts to identify affordable care to improve overall health status’ without overburdening the Chinese healthcare system. See All Areas of Expertise Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/resources/
https://clinchoice.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/ClinChoice-MoCRA-White-Paper_22-Apr-2024.pdf
1MODERNIZATION OF   COSMETICS REGULATION ACTWhite Paper 2INTRODUCTION SAFETY SUBSTANTIATION &   REPORTING REQUIREMENTSThe United States stands as one of the largest cosmetics  markets globally, surpassing $87.7 billion in revenue in 2022  and expected to maintain a steady growth trajectory at a  5.6% CAGR over the next decade1. It is estimated that the  average American uses between 6-12 cosmetic products,  containing nearly 200 chemicals, daily2. Recent statistics  predict that the average American woman spends more  than $3,756 annually on beauty products and services3.  While cosmetics do not necessitate approval from  regulatory authorities in the USA, except for color additives,  they are subject to regulation by the FDA under the Food,  Drugs, & Cosmetics Act and the Fair Packaging and Labeling Act. In recent years, researchers have raised  concerns regarding the presence of certain substances at dangerous levels and labeling discrepancies  within major cosmetics brands. The enactment of the Modernization of Cosmetics Regulation Act (MoCRA)  addresses these concerns by granting the FDA authority to access cosmetics product information, including  safety records, and to initiate product recalls if safety concerns arise. This marks a significant shift in  cosmetics oversight by the U.S. FDA, the first of its kind in over eight decades. 1 Cosmetics market size estimated to reach USD 661.12 Bn by 2032 by Yahoo Finance; December 8, 2023 2 Everything You Need To Know to Choose Safe Cosmetic Products by Andrea Sun, MS, National Center for Health Research  from https://www.center4research.org/cosmetics-safety-regulations-law-tips/ 3 Haynes, C. (2018). True Cost of Beauty: Survey Reveals Where Americans Spend Most. Available online at: https://www. groupon.com/merchant/blog/true-cost-beauty-americans-spend-most-survey (accessed January 26, 2021) 4 https://www.statista.com/forecasts/758635/revenue-of-the-cosmetics-and-personal-care-market-worldwide-by-country97.81 67.18 45.96 30.54 24.560 20 40 60 80 100 120 United States China Japan India BrazilRevenue data for top 5 countries in 20234 (Revenue in billion U.S. dollars) While the law does not enforce specific tests to demonstrate  the safety of individual products or ingredients for cosmetics,  manufacturers or marketers of cosmetic products are  mandated to maintain records substantiating safety through  scientifically validated robust methods. There have been  no significant modifications in safety substantiation and  manufacturers still can perform toxicological assessments on  ingredients using published databases such as the Cosmetic  Ingredient Review, PubMed or TOXNET. Additional testing  using scientifically validated methods is highly recommended  for cases where the published databases are not sufficient to  establish the safety of a product or ingredient. Many cosmetics products   are classified as drugs  or medical devices, and  implementing a flexible and  cost-effective safety system  can be a challenging task3 Furthermore, MoCRA includes additional provisions  that may seem straightforward to implement but pose  unique challenges. For instance, all manufacturers  will be required to register facilities involved in the  manufacturing and processing of cosmetics distributed  in the United States. The FDA will have the authority to  suspend registration due to suspected serious health  risks, which may impact other products if they are also  affected by the process. The issue cannot be isolated  and will prohibit the distribution or sale of any cosmetics  from the impacted facility in the US.MoCRA mandates new labeling requirements for all cosmetics products in the United States. By December  29, 2024, all cosmetics labels must contain the contact information of a Responsible Person capable of  receiving adverse event reports. The rule for professional cosmetics labels, mandating clear indication  of use by licensed professionals, has already been implemented. Certain fragrances can cause allergies  in consumers, prompting the FDA to issue a rulemaking for fragrance allergen identification by June 29,  2024. The final rulemaking is to be issued 180 days after the proposed rulemaking’s public comment period  providing additional time for companies to establish systems and policies to ensure compliance with this  labeling requirement.LABELING AND LISTINGMoCRA has introduced significant changes in how safety records, including non-serious adverse events  and adverse events, are managed by cosmetics companies. According to MoCRA, companies are required  to maintain records of non-serious adverse events for a specified period and promptly report such events  to the FDA via MedWatch. Furthermore, companies must designate a responsible person to report serious  adverse events associated with the use of cosmetic products to the FDA within 15 business days. While  these requirements align with common practices in the drug and device industry, cosmetics companies may  encounter challenges in implementing cost-effective solutions to comply with these regulations. Existing  solutions in the market are primarily designed for pharmaceutical and medical device companies and may turn  out to be cost-prohibitive, complicated and need additional quality requirements for cosmetic companies. Raw material and product  traceability will become  increasingly important  for companies, especially  one with complex supply  chain and third-party  vendor network4CONCLUSION In conclusion, MoCRA signifies a new era for the cosmetics industry, emphasizing safety and transparency.  Despite anticipated challenges in implementation, MoCRA promises long-term benefits of consumer  confidence and fostering a secure marketplace, thereby ensuring safety beyond mere appearance.Similarly, product listing is another provision under MoCRA wherein a responsible person will be required  to submit detailed information such as product brand name, active ingredients, formulation, preparation,  dose, and reference safety information, among others, for all products marketed in the United States.  While this may seem like a simple exercise for companies with limited manufacturing sites, for a global  cosmetics company with a complex supply chain network, these steps can easily evolve into a complex  cross-functional project. AUTHORS Vidya Shah    Senior Manager - Medical Affairs Olav Aldeguer Gullbekk Jr.    Associate Director - Safety Monika Jain    Senior Manager - Regulatory Operations Marie Danielian   Medical Affairs Scientist - Medical Affairs5 About ClinChoice ClinChoice is a global full-service CRO specializing in clinical development and functional  solutions for pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device, and consumer health  companies. We have over 28 years of proven high-quality delivery and results across all  our services. With over 4,000 professionals in more than 20 countries across the Americas,  Europe, and Asia-Pacific, we are positioned to fulfill our clients’ business requirements  locally and globally. We offer high-quality, full-service clinical development and post- marketing solutions. For our clients, it means a reliable partner and quality results. www.clinchoice.comClinChoice  International Headquarters 1300 Virginia Drive, Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 USA Phone: +1 215 283 6035 Email:  info@clinchoice.comCONTACT US


 
https://clinchoice.com/resources/
https://clinchoice.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/03/Regulatory-Intelligence-of-Cosmetics_EU-NewsLetter-Oct-Dec23-v1-justify.pdf
1REGULATORY NEWSLETTER Oct 2023 - Dec 2023 GLOBAL COSMETICS   REGULATORY   INTELLIGENCE2 REGULATORY NEWSLETTER Oct 2023 - Dec 2023 Regulatory Intelligence  of Cosmetics - EMEA3REGULATORY NEWSLETTER Oct 2023 - Dec 2023 New QSAR assessment framework supports alternatives to animal testing. (Publication date  October 10, 2023) The framework helps regulators to assess quantitative-structure activity relationships (QSAR) studies, used  as an animal-free method to gain data on chemicals.  The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) has published the framework for  assessing QSARs, developed by an expert group led by ECHA and the Italian National Institute of Health, ISS.  It guides regulators in evaluating computational results and enhances confidence in accepting alternative  methods for chemical hazard assessment. This helps build confidence in the use of QSARs and reducing  reliance on animal testing. Read More ECHA to prepare restriction proposal on chromium (VI) substances. (Publication date October  11, 2023) The European Commission has requested ECHA to prepare a REACH restriction proposal on certain chromium  (VI) substances currently on the Authorisation List of substances of very high concern. ECHA has received a mandate from the European Commission to prepare an Annex XV report for possible  restriction of at least the chromium (VI) substances that are currently in entries 16 and 17 of the REACH  Authorisation List (Annex XIV). ECHA will submit the proposal by 4 October 2024.The restriction proposal  aims to address the challenges posed by the current and possible future workload both for ECHA and the  Commission. This workload stems from the high number of applications for authorisation to use these  substances, already submitted or potentially coming from hundreds of companies. For ECHA, evaluating the  applications and concluding opinions on them would go beyond the available resources of the committees  for Risk Assessment (RAC) and Socio-Economic Analysis (SEAC) and would affect their work in regulating  other hazardous chemicals . Read More ECHA recommends more transparency in the trade of hazardous chemicals. (Publication  date October 25, 2023) The European Chemicals Agency (ECHA), with the aim of improving the EU’s implementation  of the Prior Informed Consent (PIC) Regulation, that governs the export and import of  hazardous chemicals and pesticides, is making recommendations for changes to the legal text.     ECHA’s third report on the operation of the Prior Informed Consent (PIC) Regulation shows that the overall  workload of implementing the regulation, despite a slight decrease of export notifications, has continued to  increase due to the constant addition of new chemicals subject to PIC and the increase in substances subject  to explicit consent from non-EU importing countries prior to export. Read More4REGULATORY NEWSLETTER Oct 2023 - Dec 2023 Water-soluble zinc salts used in oral hygiene products - Submission II (Publication date  November 6, 2023) The SCCS has calculated aggregate exposure to water-soluble zinc salts via toothpaste at the concentrations  of 1% and from diet and concluded that the use of zinc in toothpaste is safe per se except for children under  the age of 1 year because the intake exceeds the upper limit level. For children between 6 months and 1 year  of age, the SCCS recommends a safe concentration of 0.72% for soluble zinc salts (as zinc) in toothpaste. The  inclusion of zinc in mouthwash at 0.1% Zn is considered safe across all age groups above 6 years.  Read More EU SCCS Releases the Preliminary Opinion on Benzophenone-4 (Publication date 15  December 2023) EU Scientific Committee on Consumer Safety (SCCS) issued a preliminary opinion on the use of Benzophenone-4  (CAS No. 4065-45-6) in cosmetics. The opinion is open for comments until February 16, 2024. Currently, Benzophenone-4 is regulated under Regulation (EC) No 1223/2009  (Cosmetics Regulation) as a UV- filter in sunscreen products, with a permitted concentration of up to 5%. In CosIng , it is also reported with the  functions of UV-stabiliser and UV-absorber, protecting cosmetic formulations against sunlight. In response to  concerns regarding its endocrine disrupting properties, the European Commission launched a call for data on  Benzophenone-4 in 2021. Based on the scientific evidence provided by stakeholders, SCCS has assessed its  use in cosmetics and prepared this opinion. Considering assessment results, SCCS is of the opinion that Benzophenone-4 is safe when used as a UV  filter up to a concentration of 5% in sunscreen, face and hand creams, lipstick, sunscreen propellant spray,  and pump spray, either used separately or in combination. Read More SCCS - Preliminary Opinion open for comments on the safety of aluminium in cosmetic  products - Submission IV (Deadline for comments: 16 February 2024) (Publication date 15  December 2023) In light of the new data provided, does the SCCS consider Aluminium compounds safe when used in cosmetic  products? In the event that the estimated exposure to Aluminium from cosmetic products is found to be of  concern, SCCS is asked to recommend safe concentration limits for each category and product type.  Read  More SCCS - Final Opinion on Methylparaben (Publication date 15 December 2023) In light of the data provided and taking under consideration the concerns related to potential endocrine  disrupting properties of Methylparaben, does the SCCS consider Methylparaben safe when used as a  preservative in cosmetic products up to a maximum concentration of 0.4% (as acid) when used on its own and  up to 0.8% (as acid) for mixtures of esters as indicated in entry 12 of Annex V to the Cosmetics Regulation?  On the basis of the safety assessment considering all available data and the concerns related to endocrine  activity, the SCCS is of the opinion that the use of Methylparaben as a preservative in cosmetic products at  concentrations of up to 0.4% (expressed as acid) is safe. Read More5SCCS - Final Opinion on Silver Zinc Zeolite (Publication date 22 December 2023) In light of the data provided and taking under consideration the classification as Toxic for reproduction Cat. 2,  does the SCCS consider Silver Zinc Zeolite safe when used as a preservative in cosmetic products according to  the specifications and concentration limits provided in the dossier submission? The SCCS considers that Silver  Zinc Zeolite (CAS No. 130328-20-0) incorporating a maximum silver content of 2.5% is safe in spray deodorant  and powder foundation when used at the proposed concentration of 1%. Read More SCCS Notes of guidance for the testing of cosmetic ingredients and their safety evaluation -  12th revision: Corrigendum adopted on 21 December 2023 (Publication date 22 December  2023) The NoG have been revised and updated with emphasis on the following: •	Importance of systematic literature review •	Updating of animal-free alternative methods: NAM (New Approach Methodology), changes introduced  for acute inhalation, skin irritation testing, eye irritation testing with DAL (Defined Approach for  eye irritation, Liquid), DASS (Defined Approaches for Skin Sensitisation), new in vitro methods for  genotoxicity testing (3D skin Comet; in vitro micronucleus) •	Updating of in silico prediction possibilities •	Exposure of children to different cosmetic product categories according to age •	Sun protection by sunscreen products: rationale behind exposure data •	Human biomonitoring (HBM) and differences with SCCS approach for risk assessment •	CMRs reporting requirements. Read More EU and Greenland sign strategic partnership on sustainable raw materials value chains  (Publication Date: 30 November 2023)  EU signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Government of Greenland for a strategic  partnership to develop sustainable raw materials value chains. Executive Vice-President for the European Green Deal, Interinstitutional Relations and Foresight of the  European Commission, Maroš Šefčovič, signed the MoU with the Government of Greenland, Minister of  Business, Trade, Mineral Resources, Justice and Gender Equality, Naaja H. Nathanielsen. Greenland’s extensive natural riches are a major asset for reaping the benefits of global value chains, as it seeks  to diversify its economy in a sustainable way. 25 of the 34 critical raw materials identified by the Commission  as strategically important for Europe’s industry and the green transition can be found in Greenland. Read  More Commission welcomes provisional agreement on improving classification, labelling and REGULATORY NEWSLETTER Oct 2023 - Dec 20236packaging of hazardous chemicals (Publication Date: 5 December 2023) The Commission welcomes the provisional agreement reached today between the European Parliament  and the Council on the revision of the regulation on the classification, labelling and packaging of chemicals  (CLP). While improving the functioning of the EU market regarding products containing hazardous chemicals,  the new measures will better protect consumers, workers, and the environment. The revised text will also  accelerate the identification of hazardous substances and mixtures at EU level. The revision will improve  communication about hazardous chemicals including for chemicals sold online. It also lays down rules on  refill sales and provides more flexibility on how to use the labels. Read More Commission welcomes political agreement on the Critical Raw Materials Act (Publication  Date: 13 November 2023) The Commission welcomes the political agreement reached today between the European Parliament and  the Council on the Critical Raw Materials Act (CRMA). The Act sets out a series of comprehensive actions to  ensure the EU’s access to a secure, diversified, affordable and sustainable supply of critical raw materials. This  is essential for the competitiveness of Europe, including for green and digital industries as well as defence  and aerospace.   The new rules help to increase domestic capacities for critical raw materials along the supply chain,  complementing initiatives to diversify their supply through international partnerships supported by the  Global Gateway facility. The agreed benchmarks specify that the EU should have the capacity to extract 10%*,  process 40%, and recycle 25% of its annual consumption of strategic raw materials by 2030. Read MoreREGULATORY NEWSLETTER Oct 2023 - Dec 20237 REGULATORY NEWSLETTER Oct 2023 - Dec 2023 Regulatory Intelligence of  Cosmetics - North America8REGULATORY NEWSLETTER Oct 2023 - Dec 2023 FDA Issues Final Guidance on Registration and Listing of Cosmetic Product Facilities and  Products (Publication date December 18, 2023) The U.S. Food and Drug Administration, issued a final guidance for industry  on cosmetic product facility  registrations and product listings, as mandated by the Modernization of Cosmetics Regulation Act of 2022  (MoCRA) . The guidance assists stakeholders with cosmetic product facility registration and product listing submissions to  FDA, by describing who is responsible for making the registration and listing submissions, what information to  include, how to submit, when to submit, and certain exemptions to the registration and listing requirements.  Read More FDA Announces Launch of Cosmetics Direct for Electronic Registration and Listing of  Cosmetic Product Facilities and Products (Publication date December 18, 2023) The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) announced the launch of its Cosmetics Direct  electronic  submission portal for registration and listing of cosmetic product facilities and products, mandated by  the Modernization of Cosmetics Regulation Act of 2022 (MoCRA) . Cosmetics Direct is an FDA Structured Product Labeling (SPL)  authoring tool, for cosmetic product facility  registration and cosmetic product listing, with user-friendly data entry forms that creates, validates, saves,  submits, processes, and automatically transmits the SPL submission to FDA for internal processing without  having to use the Electronic Submissions Gateway (ESG) . Read More FDA Issues Compliance Policy for Cosmetic Product Facility Registration and Cosmetic  Product Listing  (Publication date November 8, 2023) The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued guidance  on its intent to delay enforcement of the  requirements for cosmetic product facility registration and cosmetic product listing requirements under  the Modernization of Cosmetics Regulation Act of 2022 (MoCRA)  for six months to help ensure that industry  has sufficient time to submit such facility registration and product listing information . MoCRA provided new authorities to FDA including: • Facility Registration:  Cosmetic product manufacturers and processors must register their facilities  with FDA, update content within 60 days of any changes, and renew their registration every two  years . • Product Listing:  A responsible person must list each marketed cosmetic product with FDA, including  product ingredients, and provide any updates annually . Read More9REGULATORY NEWSLETTER Oct 2023 - Dec 2023 FDA Publishes Structured Product Labeling (SPL) Implementation Guide with Validation  Procedures for Cosmetic Product Facility Registrations and Product Listings (Publication  date November 14, 2023) The U.S. Food and Drug Administration published an updated Structured Product Labeling (SPL) Implementation  Guide with Validation Procedures  today, November 14, 2023 . The guide includes updates to the cosmetics  product facility registrations and product listings that are included within the SPL framework . Read More FDA Issues Updated Instructions for Serious Adverse Event Reporting for Cosmetic Products  (Publication date December 14, 2023 ) The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is providing an update on ongoing activities related to serious  adverse event reporting mandated by the Modernization of Cosmetics Regulation Act of 2022 (MoCRA) ,  which are enforceable starting December 29, 2023. A responsible person is required to report serious adverse events associated with the use of cosmetic products  in the United States to FDA within 15 business days. The responsible person must include a copy of the label  on or within the retail packaging of such cosmetic product. If the responsible person receives medical or  other information about the adverse event within 1 year of the initial report to FDA, they must submit this  new information to FDA within 15 business days. Read more FDA Issues Update on Cosmetic Product Facility Registration and Cosmetic Product Listing  (Publication date November 1, 2023) The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is providing an update on ongoing activities related to the  new cosmetic product facility registration and cosmetic product listing mandated by the Modernization of  Cosmetics Regulation Act of 2022 (MoCRA) . In August 2023, FDA issued draft guidance  on cosmetic product facility registrations and product listings . FDA  received more than 40 comments on the draft guidance and is in the process of evaluating the comments .  Read More EPA Begins Process to Prioritize Five Chemicals for Risk Evaluation Under Toxic Substances  Control Act (Publication date December 14, 2023) The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced that it is beginning the process to prioritize five  additional toxic chemicals for risk evaluation under the nation’s premier chemical safety law. If, during the  12-month long statutory process, EPA designates these five chemicals as High Priority Substances, EPA will  then begin risk evaluations for these chemicals. EPA plans to prioritize the following chemicals for risk evaluation under the Toxic Substances Control Act  (TSCA): •	Acetaldehyde (CASRN 75-07-0), •	Acrylonitrile (CASRN 107-13-1), •	Benzenamine (CASRN 62-53-3),10REGULATORY NEWSLETTER Oct 2023 - Dec 2023 •	4,4’-Methylene bis(2-chloroaniline) (MBOCA) (CASRN 101-14-4), and •	Vinyl Chloride (CASRN 75-01-4). Read More   cVMS in Hair Care Products Pose Threats to the Environment (Publication date November  16, 2023) A recent study reveals that hair care products release significant amounts of cyclic volatile methyl siloxanes  (cVMS) in both indoors and outdoors. cVMS not only pollutes indoor air but also affects the external  environment. Moreover, its long exposure may be bio accumulative and has the potential to cause harm to  the environment. Read More EPA Takes Action to Protect People from PFAS that Leach from Plastic Containers into  Pesticides and Other Products (Publication date December 1, 2023) The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued orders  to Inhance Technologies LLC (Inhance) directing  it not to produce per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS), chemicals that are created in the production of its  fluorinated high-density polyethylene (HDPE) plastic containers. This action, taken under the authority of the Toxic  Substances Control Act (TSCA), will help protect the public from exposure to dangerous PFAS chemicals in containers  used for a variety of household consumer, pesticide, fuel, automotive and other industrial products. Read More   EPA Proposes Stronger Rules to Protect People from Persistent, Bioaccumulative, and Toxic  Chemical Exposures (Publication date November 20, 2023) The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) released a proposed rule to further protect people from  exposure to two chemicals that are toxic, remain in the environment for long periods of time, and accumulate  in the body. Both decabromodiphenyl ether (decaBDE) and phenol, isopropylated phosphate (3:1) (PIP (3:1))  are persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic (PBT) chemicals that were subject to risk management rules under  the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA). EPA’s proposed rule would impose workplace safety protections and restrict water releases. It would also  address broader implementation issues affecting the supply chains of various industry sectors including  the nuclear energy sector, transportation, construction, agriculture, forestry, mining, life sciences, and  semiconductor production. Read More11 REGULATORY NEWSLETTER Oct 2023 - Dec 2023 Regulatory Intelligence of  Cosmetics - APAC12REGULATORY NEWSLETTER Oct 2023 - Dec 2023 China NIFDC Details Principles for Determining and Researching New Cosmetic Ingredients  (NCIs) (Publication date December 1, 2023)  NIFDC released the second draft of the Technical Guidelines for Determination and Research of New  Cosmetic Ingredients (NCIs). The purpose of the Guidelines is to establish standardized guiding principles  for the identification and research of New Cosmetic Ingredients. It offers comprehensive information on NCI  categorization, as well as the research content of and naming requirements for NCIs. Read More   Notice on the release of the “Working Mechanism for Communication and Exchange of  New Cosmetic Raw Materials (Trial)” (Publication date December 1, 2023) In order to encourage and support the research and innovation of new cosmetic raw materials, and standardize  the communication between registrants and filers of new cosmetic raw materials and cosmetics technical  review departments, in accordance with the “Cosmetics Supervision and Administration Regulations” and the  “State Food and Drug Administration’s Regulation on Encouraging New Cosmetic Raw Materials” According  to the relevant requirements of the “Announcement on Matters Related to Innovation and Standardized  Management” (No. 143 of 2023), our institute has formulated the “Working Mechanism for Communication  and Exchange of New Cosmetic Raw Materials (Trial)”, which is now released. Registrants and filers of new  cosmetic raw materials can apply for communication and exchange on important technical issues through  the cosmetics smart application review system before applying for registration or filing. Read More Notice on publicly soliciting opinions on the “Technical Guiding Principles for Definition  and Research of New Cosmetic Raw Materials (Draft for Comments)” (Publication date  December 1, 2023) In order to standardize and guide the definition and research of new cosmetic raw materials, in accordance  with the relevant requirements of the “Cosmetic Supervision and Administration Regulations” and the  “State Food and Drug Administration Announcement on Matters Concerning Encouraging Innovation and  Standardizing the Management of New Cosmetic Raw Materials (2023 No. 143)”, The Cosmetics Supervision  and Administration Department of the State Medical Products Administration once again organized the  National Medical Products Administration to draft the “Technical Guiding Principles for Definition and  Research of New Cosmetic Raw Materials (Draft for Comments)”  and Drafting Instructions , which are now  publicly soliciting opinions from the public. Read More MFDS becomes the first to be WHO-Listed Regulatory Authority (Publication date: November  08, 2023)     Korea’s outstanding regulatory system and capabilities have been internationally recognized- The WLA’s  status is expected to grant Korea favourable conditions for international procurement of pharmaceuticals  and correspondingly expand exports.  The Ministry of Food and Drug Safety (Minister Oh Yu-Kyoung), Republic of Korea officially stated on November  1st (KST) that WHO announced that MFDS has been listed as WHO-Listed Authority (as of October 26, 2023)  on October 31, 2023 (local time in Geneva).  Read more13REGULATORY NEWSLETTER Oct 2023 - Dec 2023 Announcement of the State Food and Drug Administration on matters related to encouraging  innovation and standardizing management of new cosmetic raw materials (2023 No. 143)   (Publication date: November 10, 2023)   In order to encourage and support the research and innovation of new raw materials for cosmetics,  standardize the research and development, use and registration and filing management of new raw  materials, ensure the quality and safety of raw materials and products, protect the health of consumers, and  promote the healthy development of the cosmetics industry, in accordance with the “Regulations on the  Supervision and Administration of Cosmetics” (hereinafter referred to as the “Regulations”) “), “Measures for  the Administration of Registration and Filing of Cosmetics” (hereinafter referred to as the “Measures”) and  other laws and regulations, the matters related to strengthening the management of new raw materials for  cosmetics are hereby announced as follows. Read more  14Contact us ClinChoice Inc. 1300 Virginia Drive, Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 USA Phone: +1 215 283 6035 Fax: +1 215 283 6382 Email: info@clinchoice.com ClinChoice No. 420 Fenglin Road Floor 11 Xuhui District Shanghai 430000, China Email: bd@clinchoice.com ClinChoice Private Ltd. #729 8th Main 11th Cross, J.P . Towers JP Nagar 3rd Phase Bangalore - 560 076 Karnataka, India Phone: +91 80 2658 5551 Email: info@clinchoice.com ClinChoice Canada Inc. 2 Robert Speck Pkwy Mississauga, ON L4Z 1H8, Canada Phone: +1 215 283 6035  Email: info@clinchoice.comClinChoice Limited Suite G48 268 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 4DX Berkshire, United Kingdom Phone: +44 1628 566121 Email: europe@clinchoice.com ClinChoice Inc. 17th Floor  Wynsum Corporate Plaza  22 F. Ortigas Jr. Road, Ortigas  Center Pasig City, - 1605 The Philippines  Phone: +632 8633 5176 Email: info@clinchoice.com CROMSOURCE A                   Company Via Giorgio De Sandre, 3 37135 Verona - Italy Phone: +39 045 8222811  Email: cromsource@cromsource.comClinChoice LLC 3 Barbusse, 0028 Yerevan, Armenia Phone: +374 60 541515 Email: europe@clinchoice.com ClinChoice K.K THE GATE NIHONBASHI Bld.  3FHigashi Nihonbashi 3-4-1,  Chuo-ku  Tokyo 104-0031 Japan  Phone: +81 3 6228 7360  Email: japan@clinchoice.com www.clinchoice.com


 
https://clinchoice.com/resources/
https://clinchoice.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/02/ClinChoice-Regulatory-Newsletter-October-December-2023.pdf
1 REGULATORY NEWSLETTER October - December 2023Newsletter 2Contents   MEDICINAL PRODUCTS/DRUGS .............................................................................. 3 Europe  ..................................................................................................................... 4  News from the European Commission .......................................................... 4  News from the European Medicines Agency (EMA) ...................................... 4  Other Initiatives ............................................................................................. 7  News from Individual Countries ....................................................................  8   Austria ................................................................................................. 8   North America ..................................................................................... 12   United States of America .....................................................................  12   Canada ................................................................................................. 13 MEDICAL DEVICES  ................................................................................................... 14 Europe ..................................................................................................................... 15  News from the European Commission ..........................................................  15  Other Initiatives ............................................................................................. 18  News from Individual Countries ....................................................................  19   Belgium ............................................................................................... 19   United Kingdom .................................................................................. 19   Switzerland ......................................................................................... 20 North America  ........................................................................................................ 21  United States of America .............................................................................. 21  Canada .......................................................................................................... 22 OTHER “HOT” TOPICS FROM UNITED STATES  ........................................................  23 ABOUT  ClinChoice  .................................................................................................... 253 MEDICINAL PRODUCTS/ DRUGS4 News from the European Commission  First Electronic Product Information Published for Medicines The Heads of Medicines Agencies (HMA), the European Commission (EC), and EMA have released electronic  product information (ePI) for certain human medicines in the European Union (EU). This is the first time such  information is available electronically and is part of a one-year pilot initiative. The ePI includes details like the  summary of product characteristics, its labelling, and package leaflet. The published ePIs are for medicines assessed by EMA or national authorities in Denmark, the Netherlands,  Spain, and Sweden. Companies involved in the pilot create and submit the ePI as part of their regulatory ap - plication. The pilot, covering 25 medicines, will end in July 2024. The results will guide the integration of ePIs  into regular practice and their expansion across the EU. The ePIs can be viewed at the Product Lifecycle Management Portal  in English for centrally approved medi - cines and in the local language for nationally approved ones. Ongoing testing aims to provide access to ePIs  in all EU languages. More information is available here . News from the European Medicines Agency (EMA) EMA Publishes Revised CTIS Transparency Rules On 5 October 2023, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) has approved the Revised CTIS Transparency  Rules , designed to speed up access to clinical trial information through the Clinical Trials Information System  (CTIS). These changes eliminate the deferral mechanism, which previously allowed sponsors to delay pub - lishing specific trial data and documents for up to seven years to protect personal data and commercially  confidential information (CCI). The removal of the deferral function means that structured data fields and  essential documents can be published earlier to meet the needs of patients and clinical researchers in the  European Union/ European Economic Area (EU/EEA). Furthermore, the number of published documents will  be reduced to simplify the process and lessen the workload for users involved in necessary redactions. The implementation of these revised transparency rules within CTIS, including its public portal, is expected  to be completed in the second quarter of 2024. Until the new CTIS public website is launched, during interim period, sponsors can already adhere to the prin - ciples of the revised rules for initial applications. They should provide versions labelled ‘for publication’ and  ‘not for publication’ only for documents covered by the revised transparency rules from 5 October 2023, and  upload a page with suggested wording in Annex I  to Q&A on the protection of CCI and Personal Data while  using CTIS, for documents that will no longer be subject to publication.Europe 5Unredacted versions of the documents to be assessed must be provided in the ‘not for publication’ slot to  allow proper evaluation by Member States. For substantial modifications or additional applications in Member States, sponsors should consider the pre - ferred approach for protecting personal data and CCI, aiming to decrease the burden depending on the trial  status, i.e., whether deferrals are already in place. For transition trial applications, sponsors should follow the principles of Q11 of the Guidance for the Tran - sition of clinical trials from the CTD to the CTR  and submit a redacted version ‘for publication’ only of the  protocol, subject information sheet, and ICF. For ‘historical’ trials (submitted to CTIS before the new transparency rules are implemented), the structured  data will be published for all trial categories as per the revised rules, but documents will not be published.  The publication of documents in scope of the revised rules will only occur when included in applications sub - mitted after the rules are in place, regardless of previous deferrals or publication status.  For applications submitted in CTIS after the launch of the new CTIS Public Portal, the documents in scope of  publication of revised rules will be published and should be redacted accordingly. Additionally, the EMA updated the Q&A on the protection of CCI and Personal Data while using CTIS  by  introducing a new section 4 that addresses the revised transparency rules. This involved updating the text  throughout the document to align with the principles outlined in section 4. To enhance comprehension of  the revised rules, the EMA published a quick guide for users , summarizing the key principles and detailing  which structured data and documents will be published and when.   Clinical Trials Information System (CTIS) - Sponsor Handbook Updated In October 2023, the EMA released version 3.03 of the CTIS Sponsor Handbook . Numerous sections have  been revised, incorporating pertinent links to guidance for transitional clinical trials, recently published guid - ance from the Clinical Trials Facilitation and Coordination Group (CTFG), cover letters for transitional trials,  Q&A on the protection of commercially confidential information (CCI) and personal data in CTIS, and various  other updates. The references to the CTIS Sponsor Handbook are also included in the ‘Sponsor quick guide: Getting started  with CTIS .’ This guide is designed to assist applicants in easily navigating the system and other tools linked to  the CTIS. Clinical Trials Regulation (EU) No 536/2014 (CTR) Questions & Answers (Q&A) Update In December 2023, the European Commission released version 6.6 of the Q&A Document for Regulation (EU)  536/2014 . In comparison to the previous version, the following Q&As have been revised or added: • New Q&A 7.2 has been added (related to the definition of inpatient hospitalization in the context  of serious adverse events), 7.41 (providing information on the format of the Annual Safety Report  (ASR) for a non-commercial sponsor running a single clinical trial with an authorized Investigational  Medicinal Product (IMP)), and a new point 370 (clarifying that the preferred language for the An - nual Safety Report is English in all Member States, regardless of whether the submission is mono  national or multinational). • Points 289, 294, 404 (now numbered 290, 295, 405) have been revised. • Annex II updated: for Portugal, the Protocol Synopsis and patient-facing documents must now be  submitted in Portuguese and English. For Estonia, patient-facing documents are required in Esto - nian and English, with a note specifying submission of those documents in at least the official na - tional language(s) of the region(s) where the trial is conducted; English is optional. • Annex III updated: for Hungary, the email address for Part I-related enquiries has been updated. For  Finland, the links to websites have been revised. For Sweden, an additional contact for Part II has  been added. 6Workplan to Guide Use of Artificial Intelligence in Medicines Regulation   EMA and the Heads of Medicines Agencies (HMAs) have jointly released an Artificial Intelligence (AI) work - plan for the period 2023-2028 . The plan, developed under the joint HMA-EMA Big Data Steering Group  (BDSG), outlines a collaborative strategy to optimize the benefits of AI for stakeholders while effectively  managing associated risks. Adopted by EMA’s Management Board in December 2023, the workplan focuses  on four key dimensions: Guidance, Policy, and Product Support: Ongoing support for products in development and the development  and evaluation of suitable guidance for AI’s use in the lifecycle of medicines. The public consultation of the AI  reflection paper (RP) concluded in December 2023, initiating the process. Work will commence in mid-2024  to prepare for the implementation of the AI Act. Tools & Technologies: Implementation of Large Language Models (LLMs), particularly chatbots, as predom - inant tools in intellectual work, such as personal assistants. A survey of the Network’s capability to analyse  data, incorporating the use of AI. Collaboration and Change Management: Starting to use tools that find important information. Using smart  programs bit by bit and keeping an eye on how well they help. Asking the team about their ability to use  these tools. Publication of the AI tools policy for the European Medicines Regulatory Network (EMRN). Experimentation: Trying new things with AI every few months. Sharing important areas to study AI. Looking  closely at specific tools and techniques, like digital twins, to learn more. EMA Recommends Consulting the Released Notes for CTIS EMA continues to actively monitor user feedback, collaborating with stakeholders to implement ongoing sys - tem improvements and enhance the overall user experience. The latest updates are detailed in the published  release notes  and in the lists of known issues and proposed workarounds. One noteworthy update advises applicants to refrain from creating draft applications for Substantial Modifi - cations, Non-Substantial Modifications, or Additional Member State Concerned while the previous applica - tion is still under evaluation. Additionally, sponsors may encounter an error message when uploading new  versions of documents. Prior to reaching out to the CTIS Service desk, sponsors are encouraged to refresh the  webpage and verify if their changes are visible. Among the recent CTIS improvements, Member States now have the capability to provide comments on the  Request for Information (RFI) response even after the Reference Member State (RMS) has authorized the  application. Moreover, users can now download documents with special characters in the title. European Countries Public Holidays Saved in CTIS for 2024 The EMA has released a  list of official public holidays in European countries for 2024 , as documented in the  Clinical Trials Information System (CTIS). These dates, recorded in the CTIS, can impact the timelines for ap - plications. Public Holiday days or Winter clock stop days are not included in the calculation of timelines. Moreover, for multinational trials, where each Member State (MS) may have a different holiday calendar, the  process of selecting the Reporting MS will follow the calendar with the longest duration among the Member   States Concerned. The ACT EU Multi-Stakeholder Workshop on Methodology Guidance  On 23 November 2023, the EMA organized an event  where the Accelerating Clinical Trials in the EU (ACT EU)  initiative hosted a multi-stakeholder workshop on clinical trial methodology guidance. Stakeholders, regu - lators, and the European Medicines Regulatory Network (EMRN) collaborated to gain insights into various  stakeholder perspectives regarding the development of clinical trial methodology guidance. They discussed the current status of guidance on priority clinical trial methodology topics and exchanged  views on key methodology topics, emphasizing the needs of patients. The presentation slides  covering var - ious aspects of paediatric clinical trials from ethical, regulatory, and industry perspectives have been made  available on the EMA website. Additionally, all slides presented during the workshop, covering topics such  as randomized clinical trials, decentralized clinical trials, patient-centricity, and inclusion and representative -7Other Initiatives CTFG Best Practice Guide and Cover Letter Template Updated The Clinical Trials Facilitation and Coordination Group (CTCG) has issued updated versions of the Best Practice  Guide  and cover letter template  for sponsors transitioning multi-national clinical trials to the EU Clinical Trials  Regulation (EU CTR) and Clinical Trials Information System (CTIS). The revised guide now provides clarification on the concept of consolidated protocols, emphasizing the spon - sor’s responsibility to decide on the transition as a single clinical trial. It includes an annex with a graphical  example of a consolidated protocol version. Additionally, there is clarification on the background treatment,  specifying the status of non-Investigational Medicinal Products under the EU CTD considered as Investiga - tional Medicinal Products (IMP) or Auxiliary Medicinal Products (AxMP) under the EU CTR. Furthermore, the CTCG has approved an expedited and harmonized Member State evaluation procedure,  open until 16 October 2024, focusing on validating minimum application dossiers restricted to documents  already authorized under the EU CTD. Beyond this date and contingent on Member State workloads, this  expedited procedure may not be available. The CRFG will be working on new guidance and updated docu - ments, including a cover letter template, to assist stakeholders in simplifying the transition process from the  EU CTD to the EU CTR and simultaneously supporting Member States. ICH Adopts Guidelines on Viral Safety Evaluation of Biotechnology Products Derived from Cell  Lines of Human or Animal Origin  The ICH Q5A Guideline , which is an important set of rules, completed a significant step in its development on  1 November 2023. This guideline focuses on giving guidance about dealing with viruses when making medi - cines. The main objectives of the guidance are: 1. Capture key scientific and regulatory considerations to promote harmonization in the evaluation of viral  clearance, characterization, and testing. 2. Describe three main and complementary approaches to control potential viral contamination, which  include: •	Selecting and testing cell lines and other raw materials, including media components, to ensure  the absence of undesirable infectious viruses. •	Assessing the capacity of production processes to clear adventitious and endogenous viruses. •	Testing the product at appropriate steps of production to ensure the absence of contaminating  infectious viruses. This guideline is meant to be used along with other existing guidelines, especially ones called ICH Q2, ICH  Q5D, and ICH Q13.ness in clinical trials, are accessible on the EMA website. The outcomes of these discussions will be compiled into a workshop report on the event page, which will be  used to guide the future work of the EMRN in the development of methodology guidance.8News from Individual Countries  Austria BASG Fee Schedule for Clinical Trials Updated Effective from 1 January 2024, a new fee regulation by the Austrian Federal Office for Safety in Health Care  (BASG) has been implemented. This regulation applies to all applications received by the BASG from this date  onward. You can find the current fees outlined in the BASG fee schedule .   Clarification on the Decision by BAGS on CTAs Submitted via CTIS In December 2023, the BAGS provided clarification on the decision process  for Clinical Trial Applications  (CTAs) submitted through the Clinical Trials Information System (CTIS) where Austria is the Reference Mem - ber State (RMS) or the Member State Concerned (MSC). The decision on an application for approval, whether  it’s an initial application or a significant amendment, is made by the BAGS after completing the procedure. In  the CTIS, this corresponds to finishing the “Authorize” task. As per EU CTR, completing this task is enough to consider the decision on the application. If it’s an authori - zation or an authorization with non-suspensive conditions, the clinical trial can start, or the requested mod - ification can be implemented. Furthermore, the following documents will be provided to the applicants: •	A confirmation letter of completing the “Authorize” task, sent via CTIS upon completion. •	A national decision sent by post to the sponsor or national applicant outside of CTIS within the next  14 days. In the case of approval in CTIS, there’s no need to wait for a positive decision, especially considering potential  administrative or postal delays. If there’s a rejection in CTIS, the negative decision is the basis of any appeal  proceedings.   Document Templates for FORM and National Aspects for Part II The BAGS provided clarification on document templates for Part II  of dossier submitted under the EU CTR.  They emphasize that the templates published by the Commission in Eudralex Vol. 10 (‘Chapter I’) are accept - ed or recommended by BAGS and the Austrian ethics committees. If sponsors choose to use their own tem - plates, these must, at a minimum, contain the information found in the Commission’s templates. It’s crucial  that Curriculum Vitae (CV) must be both dated and up to date (not older than 1 year), and no signature is  required under CVs. It’s recommended to use national templates for Part II, particularly for the Patient Information Sheet  and Site  Suitability Form . For Insurance Policy and Terms and Conditions, a national contact point for questions about 9Italy List of National Ethics Committees and Territorial Ethics Committees On 19 December 2023, the Italian Medicines Agency (AIFA) published an updated list  of National Ethics Com - mittees and Territorial Ethics Committees for the evaluation of applications for clinical trials. The list specifies  which Ethics Committees are willing to work exclusively through the National Observatory on Clinical Trials  (Osservatorio Nazionale sulla Sperimentazione Clinica – OsSC), both via the OsCC and Clinical Trials Informa - tion System (CTIS), or solely through CTIS. Contact emails for these committees are also provided.   Communication for Sponsors on the Migration of Clinical Trials to the CTIS system The AIFA issued an announcement  reminding applicants to prepare for the transition of Clinical Trials (CTs)  from the EU CTD to the EU CTR. Particularly, for submissions without proper planning and those not stag - gered over time, it is advisable to consider the deadline of 16 October 2024, for submitting the transition  application. This ensures that the procedural outcome is finalized by 30 January 2025. Additionally, AIFA published slides outlining recommended timelines for migrating clinical trials to the Clinical  Trials Information System (CTIS) .   Summary of the Meeting with Local and National Ethics Committees and Presentations On 21-22 November 2023, the Italian Medicines Agency (AIFA) and the National Coordination Centre of  Ethics Committees (CCNCE), in collaboration with the Ministry of Health, organized an event titled “Meeting  with Territorial and National Ethics Committees.” The event, conducted in a hybrid format (both in person  and online), saw the participation of over 300 representatives from local (CET) and national (CEN) ethics  committees, as well as regional representatives responsible for coordinating and governing the ethics com - mittees. The meeting provided a significant platform to discuss relevant issues, identify challenges, and ex - plore potential shared solutions. Participants shared their experiences and suggestions, contributing to the  enhancement of dialogue and collaboration among the various stakeholders. A summary of the event, including slides presented during the meeting  for downloading, has been published  by AIFA. GCP Inspectorate Communication on Computerised Systems and Electronic Data in Clinical Trials On 29 December 2023, the Italian Medicines Agency  (AIFA) GCP Inspectorate published a guidance doc - ument on the Guideline on computerized systems and electronic data in clinical trials , following the EMA  Guideline  on this topic. The document emphasizes the crucial role of investigators in maintaining accurate  and comprehensive records, including electronic data, during clinical trials. It highlights the need for regula - tions to responsibly adapt to technological advancements, giving priority to patient safety and data integrity. Inspections at Italian clinical centres reveal a diverse use of electronic systems, ranging from paper-based to  in-house software without validation. The recommended approach is to assess the impact of each electronic  system on participant rights, safety, and data reliability. A validation process, documented by a diverse team  and end-users, should be proportional to the system’s significance. Leaders of healthcare institutions are en - couraged to ensure their computer systems comply with International Conference on Harmonisation of Tech - nical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use - Good Clinical Practice (ICH-GCP) and  the EMA Guideline, safeguarding trial participants and maintaining data integrity for regulatory submissions. The AIFA emphasizes that the approach outlined in the guidance document aligns with the principles of  GCP-ICH E6 (R2) § 4.9.0 and will be further elaborated in the upcoming version R3 of GCP , currently in the  finalization process.10Spain The United KingdomInstruction Document for Conducting Clinical Trials in Spain Updated The Spanish Agency of Medicines and Medical Devices (AEMPS) has updated Instruction document of the  Spanish Agency of Medicines and Medical Devices for conducting clinical trials in Spain. This document provides instructions for the conduct of clinical trials in Spain, specifically focusing on practi - cal aspects related to the application of Regulation (EU) No 536/2014 (EU CTR) and Royal Decree 1090/2015.  The information is presented in a question and answer format and covers various elements, including the  Ethics Committees for Research involving medicinal products (CEIm) and the Spanish Clinical Trials Register.  This document is intended to complement the “collaboration memo” between the AEMPS and the CEIm, and  it is designed to be dynamic, with plans for updates to address any issues needing clarification or rectification  based on experience. The English version of the document is available here  and the Spanish here . New Streamlined Notification Scheme for Lowest-Risk Clinical Trials On 12 October 2023, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) introduced a new  streamlined notification scheme . According to the new scheme, initial applications for Phase 4 and the  lowest-risk Phase 3 trials will now be processed within 14 days, a reduction from the statutory 30 days. The  scheme excludes CTA applications for first in human (FIH), Phase 1, or Phase 2, as well as amendments cur - rently. CTA applications submitted under this scheme must meet specific inclusion criteria .  It is anticipated that around 20% of UK initial clinical trial applications will be eligible for this scheme. For details on the steps to follow when applying for a CTA under the New Notification Scheme, please refer  to the MHRA instructions. The UK for Costing and Contracting Process Reached Second Stage  In October 2023, NCVR (National Contract Value Review) entered Stage 2 , removing local negotiations with  NHS organizations, expected to further improve commercial set-up timelines across the UK. The NCVR process is a standardized, national approach in the UK for costing and contracting in commercial  contract research. It is led by National Health Service (NHS) England in collaboration with Department of  Health and Social Care (DHSC), National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) Clinical Research Net - work, the Health Research Authority (HRA), and devolved administrations. The goal is to speed up activities  for commercial sponsors setting up multi-site studies, benefiting patients and the public. NCVR involves two tools: the UK interactive Costing Tool (iCT) for resource estimation and site-specific pric - ing, and model agreements for standard contractual terms. For multisite commercial clinical studies, the NCVR process includes creating the iCT, which is reviewed by an  NHS costing expert. Then the approved iCT is shared with NHS organizations, determining site-specific prices  using a UK-wide methodology for full cost recovery. The iCT output is integrated into the standard financial  appendix within model agreements, forming contractual terms. Since October 2023, NCVR became mandatory for late-phase (phase IIb and above)  commercial trials in  NHS organizations, significantly reducing set-up times. While not mandatory for certain studies (phase I-II  a, Advance Therapy Medicinal Product (ATMP) studies and studies running in Primary Care), many NHS or - ganizations voluntarily accept NCVR outcomes. In the past 12 months, over 600 studies underwent national  review, with more than 60 completing the set-up process. This analysis shows a notable reduction in set-up  times compared to pre-pandemic data, leading to more efficient study initiation.11UK Government Responses to the Review into Commercial Clinical Trials The government provided its reply to the Lord O’Shaughnessy review of UK commercial clinical trials in May  2023. They accepted all the suggestions from the review and committed to five main actions. The ambitious  plan is set for a 10-year vision to come to life. Details on the next steps, a summary of recommendations  and responses, along with implementation timelines specific to commercial clinical trials, are available in the  MHRA report . Updates to the Commercial and Non-Commercial Model Agreements Recently, the Health Research Authority (HRA) provided two updates on contract agreements. In October  2023, guidance for commercial agreements was revised for all UK nations (England, Scotland, Wales, and  Northern Ireland). Key changes include: •	Clarification on archiving fees, which will be a one-time charge by participating National Health Service   (NHS) and Health and Social Care (HSC) organizations to sponsors, Contract Research Organizations  (CROs), or their agents at the study’s close-down. This fee covers retention, destruction, and reasonable  access requests, and its calculation occurs at the close-down. •	Introduction of a new clause in the financial appendix, ensuring NHS organizations can defer fund use  into future financial years to enhance research capacity. In December 2023, additional updates were made. While it is recommended to use the December 2023 mod - el agreements, the October 2023 version will be accepted until June 2024. These updates apply to the following templates and guidance: • Commercial Model Clinical Trial Agreements (mCTA and CRO-mCTA) • Commercial Primary Care Model Clinical Trial Agreements (PC-mCTA) • UK template Hub and Spoke Agreements Moreover, studies initially contracted without the General Data Protection Regulation  (GDPR)-compliant  data processing clauses should have been re-contracted. For research activities solely involving data process - ing, commercial sponsors are expected to use the mNISA or CRO-mNISA  for contracting with participating  NHS organizations. Non-commercial sponsors involved in research activities solely related to data processing  should use the organisation information document  for contracting with participating NHS organizations.12North America United States of America  FDA Issues Guidance for Industry on Rare Diseases: Considerations for the Development of Drugs  and Biological Products On 22 December 2023, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued a guidance for industry titled, “ Rare  Diseases: Considerations for the Development of Drugs and Biological Products ” This guidance clarifies the  FDA’s thinking on important considerations in rare disease drug development to ultimately assist rare disease  drug and biologic product developers in conducting successful drug development programs.  The purpose of this guidance is to assist sponsors of drugs for the treatment of rare diseases in conducting  efficient and successful drug development programs. The statutory requirements for marketing approval for  drugs to treat rare and common diseases are the same and issues discussed in this guidance are encountered  in other drug development programs. These issues are frequently more difficult to address in the context of  a rare disease for which there is often limited medical and scientific knowledge, poorly understood natural  history data, sample size constraints, and lack of drug development experience. A rare disease or condition, in part, is a disease or condition that “affects less than 200,000 persons in the  United States.” Most rare diseases, however, affect far fewer people.  The sponsor of an orphan drug (a drug intended for use in a rare disease or condition) may be eligible for  orphan drug designation and certain financial incentives intended to help make developing drugs for small  numbers of patients financially viable; however, the Orphan Drug Act does not create a statutory standard for  the approval of orphan drugs that is different from the standard for approval of drugs for common diseases  or conditions. FDA is committed to helping sponsors create successful drug development programs that address the partic - ular challenges posed by each disease and encourages sponsors to engage early with the Agency to discuss  their drug development program. 13Canada Health Canada Announces the Implementation of the ICH E19 Guideline On 21 December 2023, Health Canada announced the implementation of Notice – Implementation of ICH  E19: A selective approach to safety data collection in specific late-stage pre-approval or post-approval clinical  trials . Selective Safety Data Collection refers to the recording of certain data by investigators in case report forms.  It does not affect the monitoring and clinical care of individual trial participants or documentation of their  adverse events in medical records. It also does not affect regulatory reporting requirements. Therefore, all  safety reporting requirements outlined in the regulations must still be met. Examples of appropriate use of ICH E19 include:  •	Clinical trials to support a new indication of an authorized drug where the two populations are  similar (e.g., with respect to demographic characteristics, comorbidities, concomitant therapies), or  when the patient population in the new indication was well represented in the trials that supported  the approved indication. •	Clinical trials intended to expand the label information of an authorized drug with additional end - points in the same patient population. •	Safety trials designed to further investigate potential safety concerns focussing on specific param - eters. •	Clinical trials designed to provide additional evidence of efficacy. The protocol should clearly describe: •	Which data will not be collected or be collected at a reduced frequency. •	How the selective safety data collection will be implemented (i.e., for all participants, for a subset  of participants, after an initial period of the trial, etc.). •	The clinical trial application should provide sufficient evidence to support the conclusion that the  safety profile of the drug has been sufficiently characterised to justify selective safety data collec - tion.14 MEDICAL DEVICES15 Europe  News from the European Commission   In December 2023, updates were applied to the Q&As on clinical investigations , marking the first revision  since their initial publication in April 2021.  The Medical Device Coordination Group (MDCG) introduced 19 new Q&As and revised 13, including Annex I  and II. Annex III, specifically addressing combination products, was updated to provide clarity on whether a  combination product study requires an MDR clinical investigation submission. The new general Q&As in the guidance documents address whether all clinical investigations fall under MDR  requirements. They also provide information for applicants regarding clinical studies involving combinations  of medical devices and medicinal products, outlining the regulatory pathway for conducting clinical studies  to collect data for both a medicinal product and a device, even if not a single integral product. Additionally, Q&As were added to the ‘Timelines section for Clinical Investigations’, highlighting Q 39 on  when sponsors should notify early termination of a clinical investigation and Q 41 explaining the duration for  retaining study documentation. New sections 48, 49, and 50, delves into the role and responsibility of the sponsor’s legal representative,  stating, “In situations where the legal representative also functions as a CRO, it is recommended that the  agreement between the sponsor and the CRO clearly defines what responsibilities are assigned in terms of  the legal representative capacity and what tasks are assigned to the CRO capacity.” Annex I, focusing on clinical investigations under the MDR regulatory pathway, has been updated to include  additional descriptions to the legend. It clarifies that Post-Market Clinical Follow-up (PMCF) studies without  additional burdensome and invasive procedures fall under Article 82 of the MDR, with relevant national  provisions applying. Medical Device Software (MDSW) and Hardware Combinations - New Guidance  The MDCG has released guidance on MDSW designed to function alongside hardware or hardware compo - nents . This guidance aims to clarify the regulatory considerations when the hardware or its components, in - corporating elements like cameras or sensors, are deemed medical devices or accessories to medical devices.  It also outlines scenarios where these hardware elements are not considered medical devices or accessories.  The guidance specifically discusses two cases: •	External hardware components (e.g., sensors embedded in a dermal patch) providing input data to  an MDSW app. •	Hardware components incorporated within a smartphone or wearable connected to an MDSW app  on the smartphone or wearable.16The Appointment of Five EU Reference Laboratories for High-Risk In Vitro Diagnostic Medical De - vices On 5 December 2023, the European Commission enacted an implementing act  appointing five EU reference  laboratories (EURLs) for in vitro diagnostic medical devices (IVDs). These EURLs were chosen from eight ap - plications submitted by EU Member States. The selected EURLs will play a role in assessing the conformity of  high-risk (class D) IVDs and will undertake certain advisory tasks. They specifically cover class D IVDs related  to Hepatitis and retroviruses, Herpesviruses, Bacterial agents, and Respiratory viruses causing life-threaten - ing diseases. The designated EURLs are slated to commence their tasks in conformity assessment starting from  1 Octo - ber 2024. In addition to their role in conformity assessment, EURLs have the capacity to offer scientific and  technical assistance to the European Commission, the Medical Device Coordination Group (MDCG), Member  States, and notified bodies in implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/746 (IVDR). EUDAMED Roadmap The European Commission has released the draft EUDAMED Roadmap , revealing that it will achieve full func - tionality until at least Q2 2027, followed by a transition period. The timeline highlights key milestones. All six  modules are set to undergo an independent audit by Q4 2026, with the Clinical Investigation & Performance  Studies module expected to be “audit-ready” by Q3 2026. The anticipated completion of the global audit  for all six modules is scheduled for Q2 2027. Following a six-month period post-publication, EUDAMED will  become mandatory, as outlined in the draft, in Q4 2027.  Additionally, a 24-month period for UDI/Device Registration and Notified Body & Certificates is stipulated,  becoming mandatory in Q2 2029. 17Guidance on Qualification and Classification of Annex XVI Products In December 2023, the MDCG released guidance on the qualification and classification of products without  an intended medical purpose listed in Annex XVI . This document provides explanations and examples for  applying specific classification rules to such products. Due to the absence of specific definitions in Annex  XVI, it is necessary to consult the provided product groups to determine coverage under the Medical Device  Regulation (MDR). The guidance emphasizes that to qualify a product as a device, we should “rely on information provided  in the Annex XVI list and in the scope sections of the common specifications (CS). Specific characteristics,  including product type, technology, functioning modalities, target body part, organ, or tissue, and intended  purpose, should align with the provisions. Tables within the guidance assist in interpreting terms for qualification. Additionally, a non-exhaustive list of  Annex XVI examples, along with their classification and interpretation, is presented for reference. Guidance on Demonstration of Equivalence for Annex XVI Products The Medical Device Coordination Group (MDCG) has published a guide for manufacturers and notified bod - ies, addressing the demonstration of equivalence based on data related to an already existing device. This  guide is intended for the purpose of CE-marking under the Medical Device Regulation (MDR) and is appli - cable to products without an intended medical purpose listed in Annex XVI of the MDR, which are covered  by common specifications. For dual-purpose devices, those with both medical and non-medical intended  purposes, this guidance specifically applies to the non-medical intended purpose.  Questions and Answers on Articles 13 & 14 of Regulation (EU) 2017/745 (MDR) and Regulation  (EU) 2017/746 (IVDR)  In December 2023, the MDCG revised the Q&As guidance document on Articles 13 & 14 of the MDR and  IVDR , marking its first update in two years. These articles pertain to importers and distributors. The docu - ment addresses questions to offer additional insights into the practical implementation of Articles 13 and 14.  Noteworthy additions include new questions on ‘fulfilment service providers,’ the role of importers and dis - tributors, system and procedure packs, and leasing companies. These updates aim to enhance understanding  and compliance with the Regulations in a more operational and practical context. MDCG Position Paper Notice to Manufacturers and Notified Bodies to Ensure Timely Compliance  with MDR and IVDR Requirements In November 2023, revisions were made to the notice addressed to manufacturers and notified bodies (NBs) ,  emphasizing the importance of timely compliance with MDR and IVDR requirements. The section titled “Call to manufacturers to transition to the Regulations and submit their applications for  certification without further delay” has been updated. It stresses that, given the deadlines set by the Regula - tions, manufacturers are strongly encouraged to expedite their transition efforts and avoid further delays in  submissions. Manufacturers are  mandated to consistently provide data on the status of their devices. Additionally, a new section has been added, titled “Call to notified bodies to streamline the certification pro - cess.” In this section, the MDCG encourages notified bodies to simplify their procedures and exert necessary  efforts to enhance transparency, timelines, predictability, and consistency in their conformity assessment  activities. Notified bodies are urged to regularly share data on the status of device certifications.    Released an Overview of Conformity Assessment Bodies (CABs) and Notified Bodies (NBs) The European Commission has released an overview  of the CABs and NBs at various stages of the designation  process. This overview also includes the number of notified bodies designated under the In Vitro Diagnostic  Regulation (IVDR) and the Medical Device Regulation (MDR) as of December 2023.18Other Initiatives Team-NB Press Release Call to Manufacturers Action Team-NB, the European Association for Medical Devices of Notified Bodies, issued a ‘TEAM-NB Notified Bod - ies call to action to manufacturers to apply ’ in October 2023. Team-NB underlines that, due to increased IVDR requirements, delayed notified body designations, and the  impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, the transition from IVDD to IVDR has been slower than expected. The  amending Regulation (EU) 2022/112, effective 25 January 2022, provides extended transitional time for  some medical devices (MDs) and in vitro diagnostic medical devices (IVDMDs), with the initial deadline for  Class D devices set for 26 May 2025. The European Commission surveys  indicate that the initial conformity  assessment process for IVDMDs may range from 6-12 months for low to medium-risk devices (with quality  annex certificates) and 13-18 months for high-risk devices (with product annex certificates). TEAM-NB urges  manufacturers to promptly contact a notified body and submit their applications to ensure timely accep - tance under IVDR and completion of the conformity assessment process.19News from Individual Countries  Belgium United KingdomSite Suitability Template Adapted for Clinical Investigations or Performance Studies in Belgium The Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products (FAMHP) has released a new template for site suit - ability , which is mandatory for use in clinical investigations or performance studies starting from October  2023. This template has received approval from the EU Clinical Trials Coordination and Advisory Group to  align with EU CTR. Additionally, it has been endorsed by the Belgian National Contact Point and the Clinical  Trial College Board to comply with Regulation (EU) No. 746/2017 on in vitro diagnostic medical devices (IVDR)  and Regulation (EU) No. 745/2017 on medical devices (MDR). The Innovative Devices Access Pathway (IDAP) - Pilot Phase The IDAP program  aims to speed up the development of affordable medical devices and introduce them to  the UK market. As of December 2023, the MHRA announced that the IDAP Pilot is closed for applications.  Applicants can expect outcomes by the end of January 2024. To join this trial phase, a product had to meet  specific requirements for eligibility and innovation . If anyone needs help with their application or wants to  find out more, it is advised to write an email IDAPenquiries@mhra.gov.uk . New Contract Templates for Sponsored Commercial Research Involving Medical Devices The model Clinical Investigation Agreement (mCIA)  and Clinical Research Organisation model Clinical Investi - gation Agreement (CRO-mCIA)  were revised in October 2023 and December 2023. For all new Integrated Re - search Application System (IRAS) submissions (initial clinical investigations/ performance studies or addition  of NHS site), it is recommended to use the December 2023 version of the relevant agreement. However, the  October 2023 version will still be accepted until June 2024. These updated contract templates  are intended  for use without modification in company-sponsored commercial research involving medical devices in pa - tients in hospitals across the UK Health Services by all UK nations.20Switzerland New Requirements for Product Groups Without an Intended Medical Purpose and Alignment with  the Amendments to EU MDR and EU IVDR   Switzerland has modified its Medical Devices Ordinance  (MedDO) to comply with EU standards, particularly  Implementing Regulation 2023/1194. This adjustment takes into account amendments to EU Medical Device  Regulations (EU MDR) 2017/745, focusing on transitional periods for certificates, and to both EU-MDR and  EU-In Vitro Diagnostic Regulations (EU IVDR) 2017/746, addressing the removal of deadlines for putting into  service and placing on the market. The changes to the MedDO are effective from 1 November 2023. Swissmedic has updated its website  and released implementation guides accordingly. Simultaneously, a common specification has been outlined in the Federal Gazette, extending the require - ments of MedDO to product groups without an intended medical purpose.  The following guidance and form have been updated:  •	Swissmedic information sheets: BW600_00_015e_MB Clinical investigations with medical devices  (27Dec2023) BW600_00_016e_MB Performance studies with IVD (27Dec2023) •	Forms: BW610_10_021e_FO Authorisation clinical investigation MD (01Nov2023) BW610_10_023e_FO Application simplified review MD (01Oct2023) BW610_10_024e_FO Authorisation performance study IVD (01Nov2023) BW610_10_025e_FO Application simplified review IVD (01Oct2023) BW610_20_021e_FO Amendments, notifications, reports MD IVD (01Nov2023)21North America United States of America FDA Issues Updates to Final Guidance for eSTAR On 2 October 2023, the FDA issued minor updates to the final guidance: Electronic Submissions Template for  Medical Devices 510(k) Submissions . The updates are to support the use of the Electronic Submission Tem - plate and Resource (eSTAR) through the CDRH Portal. As of 1 October 2023, all 510(k) submissions, unless  exempted, must be submitted as electronic submissions using eSTAR.  eSTAR is intended to enhance the incoming quality of submissions for a wide range of medical devices by  helping to ensure submitters provide quality, comprehensive data for premarket review. With a standardized  format, submitters can ensure their submissions are complete, and the FDA can conduct premarket reviews  more efficiently to help promote timely access to safe, effective, and high-quality medical devices. In addition, eSTAR is now available for voluntary use for the following Premarket Approval Applications  (PMAs) submission types: Original PMAs; PMA Panel Track Supplements (PTS); PMA Real-Time (RT) Supple - ments; and PMA 180-Day Supplements. FDA, Health Canada and MHRA Jointly Issued the Predetermined Change Control Plans for Ma - chine Learning-Enabled Medical Devices: Guiding Principles On 24 October 2023, the FDA, Health Canada, and the United Kingdom’s Medicines and Healthcare products  Regulatory Agency (MHRA) jointly issued the Predetermined Change Control Plans for Machine Learning-En - abled Medical Devices: Guiding Principles . The 5 guiding principles outline key characteristics of robust Pre - determined Change Control Plans (PCCPs). PCCPs are one way to support the development of safe, effective,  and high-quality devices enabled with AI/ML technologies. In 2021, the FDA, Health Canada, and the MHRA jointly identified 10 guiding principles  that can inform the  development of Good Machine Learning Practice (GMLP). GMLP supports the development of safe, effective,  and high-quality artificial intelligence/machine learning technologies that can learn from real-world use and,  in some cases, improve device performance. 22Canada Health Canada Implements Revised Notice for Implementing the Regulatory Enrolment Process  (REP) for Medical Devices Regulatory Activities On 15 November 2023, Health Canada issued Implementing the regulatory enrolment process (REP) for med - ical devices regulatory activities: Revised notice - Canada.ca . The Health Products and Food Branch (HPFB)  is implementing the regulatory enrolment process (REP) and use of the Common Electronic Submissions  Gateway (CESG) for medical device regulatory activities. The decision is based on the results of a pilot project,  which began in November 2019 and will end in June 2024. About 40 companies participated in the pilot. The  pilot was positive. All medical device companies are now invited to begin to use this process beginning in July  2024. At the moment, the REP is voluntary. The REP will be used to collect information from manufacturers on the company, dossiers, devices, regulatory  activities, and transactions. It consists of a set of web-based templates that generate REP Extensible Markup  Language (XML) files upon completion. Health Canada intends to make REP mandatory within 18 months  from the implementation date.23FDA Establishes New Advisory Committee on Digital Health Technologies On 11 October 2023, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration announced the creation of a new Digital Health  Advisory Committee  to help the agency explore the complex, scientific and technical issues related to digital  health technologies (DHTs), such as artificial intelligence/machine learning (AI/ML), augmented reality, virtu - al reality, digital therapeutics, wearables, remote patient monitoring and software. The Digital Health Advisory Committee will advise the FDA on issues related to DHTs, providing relevant  expertise and perspective to help improve the agency’s understanding of the benefits, risks, and clinical out - comes associated with use of DHTs. The committee should be fully operational in 2024.  To support the development of safe and effective digital health technologies while also encouraging innova - tion, the FDA will solicit views from the committee, which will consist of individuals with technical and scien - tific expertise from diverse disciplines and backgrounds. This will help ensure digital health medical devices  are designed and targeted to meet the needs of diverse populations. Digital health is a rapidly evolving, cross-cutting space that spans a wide range of technologies. In addition  to the technologies mentioned above, it also includes issues such as decentralized trials, patient-generated  health data and cybersecurity. FDA Publishes FDA Voices on Clinical Trial Transparency and FDA Oversight  On 4 December 2023, the FDA published the FDA Voices: “ The Importance of Clinical Trial Transparency and  FDA Oversight ,” by Robert M. Califf, M.D., Commissioner of Food and Drugs. The FDA takes its oversight of  clinical trials seriously and encourages voluntary compliance with the ClinicalTrials.gov requirements.  The FDA communicates transparency expectations and obligations under the law and use a risk-based ap - proach to prioritize compliance and enforcement actions for the violations that pose the greatest risk to pub - lic health. The FDA is committed to promoting clinical trial transparency and will continue to advance their  compliance activities related to the ClinicalTrials.gov database. Today, ClinicalTrials.gov provides a rich source of data regarding the state of clinical research, including infor - mation about research results. Almost half a million clinical trials are registered with ClinicalTrials.gov; how - ever, only a small portion, less than 15%, appear to be applicable clinical trials  (ACTs) subject to FDA oversight  of registration and results information submission requirements. OTHER “HOT” TOPICS FROM UNITED STATES  FDA Publishes Final Rule on Increasing Options in Clinical Research to Facilitate Medical Product  Development On 20 December 2023, the FDA published “ Catching Up with Califf: Increasing Options in Clinical Research  to Facilitate Medical Product Development ,” by Robert M. Califf, M.D., Commissioner of Food and Drugs. In  this “Catching Up with Califf,” the Commissioner discusses another critical component of clinical research:  “our work to harmonize clinical research regulations and to facilitate the development of medical products  to benefit public health.” The FDA issued the final rule  to help advance medical product development without compromising the  rights, safety and welfare of people participating in clinical research. The rule provides an exception from the  requirement to obtain informed consent when a clinical investigation poses no more than minimal risk to the  people participating in the research, and the research includes appropriate safeguards to protect the rights,  safety, and welfare of participants.  FDA anticipates this new rule will enable minimal risk research that would not be practicable to conduct  otherwise. This could include studies comparing the effectiveness of approved products to determine which  option works best for certain patients. Studies conducted with a waiver or alteration of informed consent  under this final rule could result in more treatment and diagnostic options without compromising the rights,  safety and welfare of people participating in those studies.  24The final rule permits an institutional review board (IRB) to waive or alter certain elements of informed con - sent, or to waive the requirement to obtain informed consent entirely, under limited conditions, for certain  FDA-regulated clinical investigations that pose no more than minimal risk to trial participants. The rule continues to protect the rights, safety and welfare of research participants and enables minimal risk  clinical investigations that may facilitate medical advances and promote public health. FDA Issues Update on In-Person Face-to-Face Formal Meetings On 18 December 2023, the FDA announced  beginning 22 January 2024, CDER and CBER will expand in-person  face-to-face (FTF) industry meetings (with a hybrid component), to include all Prescription Drug User Fee Act,  Biosimilar User Fee Act, and Over-The-Counter Monograph Drug User Fee Program (OMUFA) meeting types.  If an in-person meeting is being requested, the sponsor should specify this in their request.   A final determination on the format will be made by the review division and communicated to the sponsor  should the format be different than requested.  Existing meeting requests for the newly eligible meeting  types received before 22 January 2024, or meetings already scheduled regardless of the scheduled meeting  date, will not be converted to the in-person format, to permit fair implementation of the transition.25 About ClinChoice ClinChoice is a global full-service CRO specializing in clinical development and functional  solutions for pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device, and consumer health  companies. We have over 28 years of proven high-quality delivery and results across all  our services. With over 4,000 professionals in more than 20 countries across the Americas,  Europe, and Asia-Pacific, we are positioned to fulfill our clients’ business requirements  locally and globally. We offer high-quality, full-service clinical development and post- marketing solutions. For our clients, it means a reliable partner and quality results. HEADQUARTERS   ClinChoice Inc. 1300 Virginia Drive, Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 USA Phone: +1 215 283 6035 Fax: +1 215 283 6382 Email:  info@clinchoice.com www.clinchoice.comCONTACT US


 
https://clinchoice.com/resources/
https://clinchoice.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/02/Regulatory-Intelligence-of-Cosmetics-updates-v2.3-5Feb2024.pdf
1 REGULATORY INTELLIGENCE COSMETICS 2Contents 1. COSMETIC INGREDIENTS UPDATE JAN 2023  .............................................. 3 2. COSMETIC INGREDIENTS UPDATE FEB 2023  .............................................. 7 3. COSMETIC INGREDIENTS UPDATE MAR 2023  .............................................. 9 4. COSMETIC INGREDIENTS UPDATE APR 2023  .............................................. 11 5. COSMETIC INGREDIENTS UPDATE MAY 2023  .............................................. 13 6. COSMETIC INGREDIENTS UPDATE JUNE 2023  .............................................. 17 7. COSMETIC INGREDIENTS UPDATE JULY 2023  .............................................. 22 8. COSMETIC INGREDIENTS UPDATE SEP 2023  .............................................. 25 9. COSMETIC INGREDIENTS UPDATE    OCT 2023  .............................................. 29 10. COSMETIC INGREDIENTS UPDATE    NOV 2023 .............................................. 34 11. COSMETIC INGREDIENTS UPDATE    DEC 2023  .............................................. 41 12. ABOUT  ClinChoice  ........................................................................................ 473 1.  COSMETIC INGREDIENTS UPDATE    JAN 20234Status until Jan, 2023 Change Used as UV filter up to 10% in  finished product.Up to 9% in propellent spray products. Up to 10% in other products. Impact: Products must be checked for the composition to meet the current requirements for Octocrylene. Reason for Change:  Identification of potential endocrine disrupting properties. Product list:  Sunscreen (lotion, propellant spray, pump spray), Lip stick, Face cream, Hand cream -  Octocrylene SCCS, 2021 Source EU CosIng: Link European Commission: Link European Commission: Link Status until Jan, 2023 Change Not regulated by EU (under review). PROHIBITED – Listed in Annex II (entry 439) of EU Cosmetics  Regulation on January 30, 2023 Impact: Products must be checked for the composition containing fragrance, which must be free of this  fragrance ingredient. Reason for Change: Dermal sensitization Product list: All cosmetic products. Source   SCCS: Link1. Ingredient Name: Octocrylene 2. Ingredient Name: 3,7-Dimethyl-2-octen-1-ol (6,7-Dihydrogeraniol), when used as a  fragrance ingredient.5Status until Jan -2023 Change PROHIBITED - Listed in Annex  II (entry 416) of EU Cosmetics  Regulation on January 20, 2023PROHIBITED - Listed in Annex II (entry 416) of EU Cosmetics  Regulation on January 20, 2023 Added new ingredients/substances to this category. Impact:  Products must be checked for the composition to meet the current requirements. Reason for Change:  NA Product list:  All cosmetic products. Source SCCS: Link Status until Jan -2023 Change RESTRICTED - Listed in Annex  III (entry 60) of EU Cosmetics  Regulation Finished products: Maximum  secondary amine content: 0.5% Others: Do not use with nitrosating  systems Maximum secondary  amine content: 5% (applies to raw  materials) Maximum nitrosamine content: 50  microgram/kg Keep in nitrite-free  containersRESTRICTED - Listed in Annex II (entry 60) of EU Cosmetics  Regulation on January 20, 2023 Added new ingredients/substances to this category. Impact: Products must be checked for the composition to meet the current requirements. Reason for Change:  NA Product list: All cosmetic products. Source SCCS: Link3. Ingredient Name: Cells, tissues, or products of human origin 4. Ingredient Name: Fatty acid dialkylamides and dialkanolamides6Status until Jan-2023 Change Safety data on use of Alpha- Arbutin  and Beta-Arbutin in combination  were not available, and concerns  regarding the presence of  hydroquinone levels (as impurity)  were not clearOn 31 January 2023 Face Creams: Alpha-Arbutin and Beta Arbutin can be used up to 2%  and 7%, respectively, individually or in combination. Body lotions: Alpha-Arbutin can be used up to 0.5% individually or  in combination. Hydroquinone should remain as low as possible in formulations  containing Alpha- or Beta-arbutin and should not be higher than  the unavoidable traces in both Arbutins. Impact: Products must be checked for the composition to meet the current requirements for Arbutins. Reason for Change:  To determine the safety when used in combination and to determine the safe levels of  Hydroquinone (which is a prohibited ingredient for cosmetic use). Product list: Body Lotion, Face cream Arbutin SCCS, 2023 Source SCCS: Link5. Ingredient Name: Alpha-Arbutin and Beta-Arbutin7 2. COSMETIC INGREDIENTS UPDATE    FEB 20238Status until Feb-2023 Change Risk assessment was not performed  due to lack of adequate data on  dermal penetration.On 1 February 2023 – SCCS published the final opinion on safety of  Aluminum compounds in cosmetic products. Safe use levels for various categories of cosmetic products were  published in Tables 4 and 6 of SCCS opinions final report. Impact: Products must be checked for the composition to meet the current requirements for Aluminum  compounds. Reason for Change:  To determine the safety of Aluminum compounds in cosmetics. Product list: Body Lotion, Face cream, Hand cream, Shampoo, Hair spray, Eye liner etc. Aluminium SCCS,  2023 Source SCCS: Link1. Ingredient Name: Aluminum9 3. COSMETIC INGREDIENTS UPDATE    MAR 202310Status until Mar-2023 Change Safety of Hydroxyapatite (nano)  was not assessed in oral cosmetic  productsOn 21-22 March 2023 – SCCS published the final opinion on safety  of Hydroxyapatite (nano) in oral cosmetic products. Hydroxyapatite (nano) is safe when used at concentrations up to  10% in toothpaste, and up to 0.465% in mouthwash. Impact: Oral cosmetic products must be checked for the composition to meet the current requirements for  Hydroxyapatite (nano). Reason for Change: To determine the safety of Hydroxyapatite (nano) in oral cosmetic products. Product list:  Toothpaste, Mouth wash – Hydroxyapatite SCCS, 2023 Source SCCS: Link Status until Mar-2023 Change Safety of Sodium bromothymol  blue when used in non-oxidative  hair color for head at a maximum  concentration of 0.5% was not  assessed.On 21-22 March 2023 – SCCS published the final opinion on  Sodium bromothymol blue. The applicant used TTC approach  to determine the safety of the ingredient, but SCCS concluded  that TTC approach cannot be used for restricted ingredients and  requires further invivo systemic toxicity test data to determine  safety. Impact: NA as of now as there are comments from SCCS for the applicant.  Reason for Change:  To determine the safety of Sodium bromothymol blue.  Product list: Not applicable as it was not finalised. Source SCCS: Link1. Ingredient Name: Hydroxyapatite (nano) 2. Ingredient Name: Sodium bromothymol blue (C186)11 4. COSMETIC INGREDIENTS UPDATE    APR 202312  Status until Apr-2023 Change SZZ was a prohibited substance in  cosmetic products.On 4 April 2023 – SCCS published a preliminary opinion open for  comments on Silver Zinc Zeolite - deadline for comments: 5 June  2023 Impact: Cosmetic products must be checked for the composition to meet the current requirements for SZZ. Reason for Change: In May 2019, SZZ was added in entry 1597 of Annex II of Regulation (EC) No. 1223/2009  as a prohibited substance in cosmetic products. In August 2020, the Commission services received a dossier  submission by industry to support the safety assessment of SZZ as a preservative in cosmetic products,  in spray deodorant and powder foundation. A positive outcome of this assessment may support the de- listing of SZZ from Annex II and its inclusion under Annex V in the Cosmetics Regulation as an authorized  preservative. Product list: Spray deodorant, Powder foundation – SZZ - SCCS, 2023 Source SCCS: Link   Status until Apr-2023 Change The safety of fullerenes,  hydroxylated fullerenes and  hydrated forms of hydroxylated  fullerenes in cosmetic products was  not previously assessed by SCCS.On 24 April 2023 – SCCS published a preliminary opinion open for  comments on fullerenes, hydroxylated fullerenes, and hydrated  forms of hydroxylated fullerenes (nano) - deadline for comments:  12/06/23 Impact: The available evidence indicates that hydrated forms of hydroxylated fullerenes are genotoxic and  hence, SCCS considers them as not safe for use in cosmetic products. The same concerns over genotoxicity  potential apply to Hydroxylated fullerenes. Reason for Change: To address the safety of Fullerenes, Hydroxylated Fullerenes, and hydrated forms of  Hydroxylated Fullerenes (nano) in cosmetics. Product list:  Spray deodorant, Powder foundation – Fullerenes SCCS, 2023 Source SCCS: Link1. Silver Zinc Zeolite (SZZ) 2. Fullerenes, Hydroxylated Fullerenes, and hydrated forms of Hydroxylated Fullerenes  (nano)13 5. COSMETIC INGREDIENTS UPDATE    MAY 202314Status until May-2023 Change Methyl salicylate is currently listed in  entry 324 of annex iii to the cosmetic  regulation (EC) no. 1223/2009,  with specific concentration limits  for various product types and age  groups.On 16 May 2023 – Preliminary opinion open for comments on  children exposure to methyl salicylate   (methyl 2- hydroxybenzoate) - deadline: 19 June 2023 Impact: SCCS considers the use of methyl salicylate as safe in cosmetic products intended for children of  age 0.5-3 years when used up to a maximum concentration of 0.02% in shower gel, hand soap, shampoo,  body lotion, face cream, hand cream and lip products. For toothpaste, up to a maximum concentration of  2.52% methyl salicylate is considered safe. SCCS considers the use of methyl salicylate as safe in cosmetic products intended for children of age 3-6  years at the following concentrations: • Shower gel, hand soap, shampoo, body lotion, face cream, hand cream, hair conditioner- 0.06% • Lip products- 0.03% • Toothpaste- 2.52% Reason for Change: The combined exposure to methyl salicylate from oral and non-oral products is above  the Margin of Safety (MoS). Product list:  Shower gel, hand soap, shampoo, body lotion, face cream, hand cream, lip products, hair  conditioner, and toothpaste. Source SCCS: Link1. Methyl salicylate15Status until May-2023 Change Draft amendment to EC  No.1233/2009. Additionally, 56   more allergens were added to the  existing list. Previously, there were 25 labelled  allergens listed and now they are  more than 80According to the amendment draft, fragrance allergens must be  individually labelled on cosmetic products, in addition to the use  of the terms “parfum” or “aroma,” if their concentration exceeds  0.001% in leave-on products and 0.01% in rinse-off products. Impact:  Retailers should remove/withdraw all non-compliant products from the shelves of stores in EU  member countries by 2028. Except from regulation/Duration: Manufacturers will have a 3-year transition period to comply with the  new regulation, including updating product labelling and revising all necessary documentation. Reason for Change: This amendment will protect consumers from acquiring fragrance allergies and will  additionally protect sensitized individuals from developing allergy symptoms. Product list: All cosmetic products Source SCCS: Link; Link2. Draft amendment to EC No.1233/200916Status until May-2023 Change 11th revision was effective which was  published in October 2021SCCS 12th revision was published in May 2023 Impact:  Main changes in 12th revision were: • Importance of systematic literature review. • Updating of animal-free alternative methods: New Approach Methodology (NAM), changes  introduced for acute inhalation, skin irritation testing, eye irritation testing with Defined Approach for  eye irritation, Liquid (DAL), Defined Approaches for Skin Sensitisation (DASS), new in vitro methods  for genotoxicity testing (3D skin Comet; in vitro micronucleus). • Importance of adverse outcome pathway (AOP), defined approaches (DAs), integrated approaches to  testing and assessment (IATA), next generation risk assessment (NGRA) with definition of bioactivity/ exposure ratio (BER), threshold of toxicological concern (TTC), internal TTC (iTTC). • Updating of in silico prediction possibilities. • Exposure data reviewed (models, parameters specific for inhalation, aggregate exposure). • Exposure of children to different cosmetic product categories according to age. • Sun protection by sunscreen products: rationale behind exposure data. • Human biomonitoring (HBM) and differences with SCCS approach for risk assessment. • CMRs reporting requirements. • Endocrine active substances, introduction of non-monotonic dose response, reporting requirements. • Templates for physiologically based toxicokinetics (PBTK) model description and parameter  verification and analysis. Product list : Not applicable as this is an update on the SCCS guideline. Source SCCS: Link3. THE SCCS NOTES OF GUIDANCE FOR THE TESTING OF COSMETIC INGREDIENTS AND  THEIR SAFETY EVALUATION - 12TH REVISION17 6. COSMETIC INGREDIENTS UPDATE    JUNE 202318  Status until Jun-2023 Change Allowed up to a maximum  concentration of 0.14% (as acid)  when used alone or for the sum of its  combined use with other parabens  or its salts in all cosmetic product  types, except leave-on products.On 06-07 June 2023 – Preliminary opinion open for comments on  butylparaben - deadline: 21 August 2023 Impact: SCCS concluded that the use of butylparaben as a preservative in cosmetics is safe up to   0.14% (as acid). Reason for Change:  Submission of new toxicological data by stakeholders led to further assessment. Product list:  All Cosmetic products Source SCCS: Link Status until Jun-2023 Change Allowed up to a maximum  concentration of 0.4% (as acid) when  used alone, up to 0.8% for mixtures  of esters.On 06-07 June 2023 – Preliminary opinion open for comments on  methylparaben - deadline: 21 August 2023 Impact: Allowed up to a maximum concentration of 0.4% (as acid) when used alone, up to 0.8% for mixtures  of esters. Reason for Change:  Submission of new toxicological data by stakeholders led to further assessment. Product list: All Cosmetic products Source SCCS: Link1. Butyl paraben  2. Methyl paraben 19Status until Jun-2023 Change Annex III: Not to be used in preparations for  children under 3 years of age. Not to be used in applications that  may lead to exposure of the end- user’s lungs by inhalation. Not  to be used in oral products for  purposes other than inhibiting the  development of micro-organisms in  the product, the purpose has to be  apparent from the presentation of  the product. Annex V: Not to be used in products for  children under 3 years of age. Not to be used in oral products. Not to be used in applications that  may lead to exposure of the end- user’s lungs by inhalation. Salicylic  acid salts. Not to be used in products for  children under 3 years of age, except  for shampoos.On 06-07 June 2023 – Final opinion on Salicylic acid was released. Impact: Safe when used as preservative at a concentration of 0.5% in cosmetic products, considering its  current restrictions in place. The provided information shows that salicylic acid is an eye irritant with the  potential to cause serious damage to the eye. Safe when as a restricted ingredient for purposes other than inhibiting the development of   micro-organisms: • Up to 3.0% for the cosmetic rinse-off hair products • Up to 2.0% for other products except body lotion, eye shadow, mascara, eyeliner, lipstick, non-spray  deodorant, and • Up to 0.5% for body lotion, eye shadow, mascara, eyeliner, lipstick, oral products and non- spray  deodorant (not applicable to any sprayable product (including mouth spray) that may lead to  exposure of end-user’s lungs by inhalation) Not allowed to use in cosmetic products for children under 3 years of age. Reason for Change: Submission of new toxicological data by stakeholders led to further assessment. Product list: Rinse off hair products, body lotion, eye shadow, mascara, eyeliner, lipstick, non- spray  deodorant Source SCCS: Link3. Salicylic acid20Status until Jun-2023 Change The presence of the substance must  be indicated in the list of ingredients  referred to in Article 19(1)g when its  concentration exceeds: - 0.001% in  leave-on products – 0.01% in rinse- off productsOn 06-07 June 2023 – Preliminary Opinion open for comments on  benzyl salicylate – deadline: 24 August 2023 Impact: Considered as safe when used at concentrations as mentioned below. Reason for Change: Submission of new toxicological data by stakeholders led to further assessment. Product list: Fragrances, skin & hair care products, rinse off body products, leave on skin & hair care  products, face make up & make up remover, oral care, and deodorant products. Source SCCS: Link4. Benzyl salicylate21Status until Jun-2023 Change 1st revision was published in October  2019Guidance on the safety assessment of nanomaterials for cosmetics  (2nd revision) was published on 06-June 2023 Impact: Main changes in this revision were : • New sections have been introduced (solubility and dissolution rate, solubility in non- aqueous  media, evidence for the absence of nanoparticles, dispersion, aspect ratio, uptake into blood cells,  reproductive toxicity, endocrine disruption). • The new European Commission recommendation for a definition of nanomaterials published in 2022  has been introduced. • Key aspects triggering safety concerns over a nanomaterial based on SCCS/1618/2020 have been  introduced. • Other sections and Annex 1 have been updated based on literature that has been published since the  last update. • Section on read-across and grouping has been revised. • A text explaining when historical/existing data can be used has been included. Reason for Change:  In view of SCCS 12th revision, certain changes were made in the assessment of  nanomaterials in cosmetics. Product list: Not applicable as this update on the guideline. Source SCCS: Link5. Nanomaterials22 7.  COSMETIC INGREDIENTS UPDATE    JULY 202323  Status until Jul-2023 Change 26 allergens were part of EC  1223/200956 additional fragrance allergens were added. According to the amendment draft, fragrance allergens must be  individually labelled on cosmetic products, in addition to the use  of the terms “parfum” or “aroma,” if their concentration exceeds  0.001% in leave-on products and 0.01% in rinse-off products. Fragrance substances, such as prehaptens and prohaptens, that  can be transformed to known contact allergens via air oxidation  or bioactivation should be treated as equivalent to fragrance  allergens and subject to the same restrictions and other regulatory  requirements. Impact:  A transition period of 3 and 5 years was provided for new product formulations and containers to  be placed on the market and to withdraw cosmetic products from the market, respectively. Reason for Change:  In response to the request of the Commission for an update of the list of individually  labelled fragrance allergens, the Scientific Committee on Consumer Safety (SCCS) adopted an opinion at its  plenary meeting of 26-27 June 2012. It confirmed that the fragrance allergens listed in entries 45 and 67–92 of Annex III to Regulation (EC) No  1223/2009 are still relevant. Furthermore, it identified 56 additional fragrance allergens, which have clearly  caused allergies in humans, and which currently have no requirement of individual labelling. Product list: All cosmetic products. Source Primary source:  (Link) List of additional 56 fragrance allergens:  (Link)1. EC No.1233/2009 (Annex III) update24Status until Jul-2023 Change SCCS published an opinion on  water-soluble zinc salts used in  oral hygiene products - submission  I (Link) in June 2018 concluding  that the use of zinc in toothpaste  and mouthwash at 1 and 0.1%,  respectively, is safe for adults and  children aged 6-17 years.On 4 July 2023 – SCCS published a preliminary opinion open  for comments on water-soluble zinc salts used in oral hygiene  products - submission II (deadline: 8 September 2023) Impact: SCCS has calculated aggregate exposure to water-soluble zinc salts via toothpaste at the  concentrations of 1% and from diet and concluded that the use of zinc in toothpaste is safe per se except for  children under the age of 1 year because the intake exceeds the upper limit level. The inclusion of zinc in mouthwash at 0.1% Zn is considered safe across all age groups. Products should be  assessed for levels of Zinc. Reason for Change:  Daily dietary intake of zinc was not considered in Submission I. Submission II includes  considerations of the reported dietary exposures, absorption kinetics, and the age- dependent usage of oral  care products by consumers. Product list:  Oral hygiene products. Source:  SCCS2. Water soluble Zinc salts25 8. COSMETIC INGREDIENTS UPDATE    SEP 202326Status until Sep-2023 Change On 27 October 2021, the SCCS  concluded on the safety of methyl  salicylate and Regulation (EU)  2022/1531 restricted its use in  cosmetic products. Methyl salicylate  is currently listed in entry 324 of  Annex III to the Cosmetic Regulation  (EC) No. 1223/2009, with specific  concentration limits for various  product types and age groups.On 16th May 2023 – Preliminary Opinion open for comments on  children exposure to methyl salicylate (methyl 2- hydroxybenzoate)  - deadline: 19th June 2023 On 14th September 2023 - SCIENTIFIC ADVICE – children exposure  to methyl salicylate (methyl 2-hydroxybenzoate) was published. Impact:  In view of the conclusions of SCCS/1633/21 and the aggregate exposure, the SCCS considers the use  of methyl salicylate as safe in cosmetic products intended for children of age 0.5-3 years when used up to a  maximum concentration of 0.02% in shower gel, hand soap, shampoo, body lotion, face cream, hand cream,  and lip products. For toothpaste, up to a maximum concentration of 2.52% methyl salicylate is considered  safe. The SCCS considers the use of methyl salicylate as safe in cosmetic products intended for children of age  3-6 years in shower gel, hand soap, shampoo, body lotion, face cream, hand cream, lip products, and hair  conditioner up to the allowed maximum concentrations indicated in the Table. For toothpaste, up to a maximum concentration of 2.52% methyl salicylate is considered safe. Reason for Change:  The combined exposure to methyl salicylate from oral and non-oral products is above  the Margin of Safety (MoS), when used: • for children of age 0-3 years, up to a maximum concentration of 0.02% in all the currently regulated  cosmetic products included in the above table. • for children of age 3-6 years, up to the allowed maximum concentrations for each of the currently  regulated cosmetic products included in the above table. Product list: All cosmetic products. Source: SCCS1. Methyl salicylate  27Status until Sep-2023 Change Annex II to Regulation (EC) No  1223/2009 was amended- 19th July  2023. The annex II was updated on 14  September 2023.According to the amendment draft   (COMMISSION REGULATION (EU) 2023/1490), 30 CMR (carcinogenic, mutagenic, and toxic for  reproduction) were added to annex II to Regulation (EC) No  1223/2009. Impact: This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the  Official Journal of the European Union. It shall apply from 1 December 2023. Reason for Change:  To uniformly implement the prohibition of CMR substances within the internal market,  to ensure legal certainty, for economic operators and national competent authorities, and to ensure a  high level of protection of human health, all CMR substances should be included in the list of prohibited  substances in Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1223/2009 and, where relevant, deleted from the lists of  restricted or allowed substances in Annexes III to VI to that Regulation. Where the conditions laid down in  Article 15(1), second sentence, of Regulation (EC) No 1223/2009 or in Article 15(2), second subparagraph  of that Regulation are fulfilled, the lists of restricted or allowed substances in Annexes III to VI to that  Regulation should be amended accordingly. Product list:  All cosmetic products. Source: (EU) 2023/1490: ( Link) Cosing: ( Link)2. EC No.1223/2009 (Annex II) update28Status until Sep-2023 Change Annex III to Regulation (EC) No 1223/2009  was amended- 26th July 2023. The annex III was updated on 14th  September 2023.According to the amendment draft (COMMISSION  REGULATION (EU) 2023/1545), fragrance allergens must be individually labelled  on cosmetic products, in addition to the use of the terms  “parfum” or “aroma,” if their concentration exceeds 0.001%  in leave- on products and 0.01% in rinse-off products. Fragrance substances, such as prehaptens and prohaptens,  that can be transformed to known contact allergens via air  oxidation or bioactivation should be treated as equivalent to  fragrance allergens and be subject to the same restrictions  and other regulatory requirements. The list of fragrance allergens previously had 24 entries.  Following this amendment, the list now has 80 entries (56  new entries). Impact: A transition period of 3 and 5 years was provided for new product formulations and containers to  be placed in the market and to withdraw cosmetic products from the market, respectively. Reason for Change:  In response to the request of the Commission for an update of the list of individually  labelled fragrance allergens, the Scientific Committee on Consumer Safety (SCCS) adopted an opinion at its  plenary meeting of 26-27 June 2012. It confirmed that the fragrance allergens listed in entries 45 and 67–92 of Annex III to Regulation (EC) No  1223/2009 are still relevant. Furthermore, it identified 56 additional fragrance allergens, which have clearly  caused allergies in humans, and which have currently no requirement of individual labelling. Product list:  All cosmetic products. Source: (EU) 2023/1545: ( Link) Cosing: ( Link)3. EC No.1223/2009 (Annex III) update29 09. COSMETIC INGREDIENTS UPDATE       OCT 202330Status until Oct-2023 Change Annex III to Regulation (EC) No  1223/2009 was updated on 24  October 2023. 1. Hydroxy-3-nitro-4-(3-  hydroxypropylamino)benzene   and its salts were prohibited for  use after 2009. Status up to 2009  was as below: (a) Hair dye substance in oxi - dative hair dye products  (5.2%) (b) Hair dye substance in  non-oxidative hair dye  products (2.6%)The free base and salts of this hair coloring ingredient unless pro - hibited under Annex II are permitted for use. Maximum concen - tration in ready for use preparation was 2.6%. (a) After mixing under oxidative conditions, the maximum  use concentration applied to hair must not exceed 2.6%  calculated as free base. For (a) and (b): • Do not use with nitrosating systems. • Maximum nitrosamine content: 50 microgram/kg. • Keep in nitrite-free containers. To be printed on the  label: • The mixing ratio. • Hair colorants can cause severe allergic reactions. Read and follow instructions. • This product is not intended for use on persons under the  age of 16. • Temporary “black henna” tattoos may increase your risk of  allergy. • Do not colour your hair if: • you have a rash on your face or sensitive,   irritated and damaged scalp, • you have ever experienced any reaction after coloring your  hair,  • you have experienced a reaction to a temporary   “black henna” tattoo in the past. Impact: The above compliance must be followed for cosmetic ingredients with 1-hydroxy-3- nitro-4-(3- hydroxypropylamino)benzene and its salts. Reason for Change:  The use of this substance in cosmetic products in the European Union is banned, except  under certain conditions as indicated in Annex III (details as provided in the above table). Product list:  All cosmetic products. Source: EU CosIng: Annex III ( Link) CosIng:  1-Hydroxy-3-nitro-4-(3-hydroxypropylamino)benzene ( Link)1. EC No.1223/2009 (Annex III) update31Status until Oct-2023 Change Annex III to Regulation (EC) No  1223/2009 was updated on 24  October 2023. 1-[(2’-Methoxyethyl)amino]-2-ni - tro-4-[di-(2’- hydroxyethyl)amino] benzene and its salts were prohib - ited for use after 2009. Status up to  2009 was as below: (a) Hair dye substance in oxi - dative hair dye products  (3%) (b) Hair dye substance in  non-oxidative hair dye  products (2%)The free base and salts of this hair coloring ingredient unless pro - hibited under Annex II are permitted for use. Maximum concen - tration in ready for use preparation was 2% in non-oxidative hair  dye products. Do not use with nitrosating agents • Maximum nitrosamine content: 50 μg/kg • Keep in nitrite-free containers Impact:  The above compliance must be followed for cosmetic ingredients with 1-[(2’- methoxyethyl)amino]- 2-nitro-4-[di-(2’-hydroxyethyl)amino]benzene and its salts. Reason for Change:  The use of this substance in cosmetic products in the European Union is banned, except  under certain conditions as indicated in Annex III (details as provided in the above table). Product list:  All cosmetic products. Source: EU CosIng: Annex III ( Link) CosIng:  1-[(2’-Methoxyethyl)amino]-2-nitro-4-[di-(2’-hydroxyethyl)amino]benzene ( Link)2. EC No.1223/2009 (Annex III) update32Status until Oct-2023 Change Annex III to Regulation (EC) No  1223/2009 was updated on 24  October 2023. 1-(3-Hydroxypropyl - amino)-2- nitro-4-bis(2-  hydroxyethyl)amino) benzene and it salts (HC Violet No 2) were pro - hibited for use after 2009.The free base and salts of this hair coloring ingredient unless  prohibited under Annex II are permitted for use. 1-Propanol,  3-[[4-[bis(2- hydroxyethyl)amino]-2- nitrophenyl]amino] (HC Violet No 2) was allowed with a maximum  concentration of 2% in ready for use preparation in non- oxidative  hair dye products. Do not use with nitrosating agents • Maximum nitrosamine content: 50 μg/kg • Keep in nitrite-free containers Impact: The above compliance must be followed for cosmetic ingredients with HC Violet No 2. Reason for Change:  The use of this substance in cosmetic products in the European Union is banned, except  under certain conditions as indicated in Annex III (details as provided in the above table). Product list: All cosmetic products. Source: EU CosIng: Annex III ( Link) CosIng:  1-Propanol, 3-[[4-[bis(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]-2-nitrophenyl]amino] ( Link)3. EC No.1223/2009 (Annex III) update33Status until Oct-2023 Change Annex III to Regulation (EC) No  1223/2009 was updated on 24  October 2023. 4,4’-[1,3-Propanediylbis(oxy)]bis-, benzene-1,3-diamine and its salts  were prohibited for use after 2009.4,4’-[1,3-Propanediylbis(oxy)]bisbenzene- 1,3-diamine and its tetra - hydrochloride salt were allowed up to a maximum concentration  of 1.2 and 1.8% (calculated as free base and as tetrahydrochloride  salt, respectively) after mixing under oxidative conditions. To be printed on the label: • The mixing ratio. • Hair colorants can cause severe allergic reactions. Read and follow instructions. This product is not intended for use on persons under the age of  16 years. Temporary “black henna” tattoos may increase your risk of allergy.  Do not colour your hair if: • you have a rash on your face or sensitive, irritated and  damaged scalp, • you have ever experienced any reaction after coloring  your hair,  • you have experienced a reaction to a temporary   “black henna” tattoo in the past. Can cause allergic reaction. Impact:  The above compliance must be followed for cosmetic ingredients with 4,4’-[1,3-  propanediylbis(oxy)]bisbenzene-1,3-diamine and its tetrahydrochloride salt. Reason for Change:  The use of this substance in cosmetic products in the European Union is banned, except  under certain conditions as indicated in Annex III (details as provided in the above table). Product list:  All cosmetic products. Source: EU CosIng: Annex III ( Link) CosIng: 4,4’-[1,3-Propanediylbis(oxy)]bisbenzene-1,3-diamine and its tetrahydrochloride salt ( Link)4. EC No.1223/2009 (Annex III) update34 10. COSMETIC INGREDIENTS UPDATE       NOV 202335Status until Nov-2023 Change SCCS published an opinion on  water-soluble zinc salts used in  oral hygiene products - submission  I (Link) in June 2018 concluding  that the use of zinc in toothpaste  and mouthwash at 1 and 0.1%,  respectively, is safe for adults and  children aged 6-17 years.On 6th November 2023 – SCCS published a final opinion on water- soluble zinc salts used in oral hygiene products - Submission II. Impact: SCCS has calculated aggregate exposure to water-soluble zinc salts via toothpaste at the  concentrations of 1% and from diet and concluded that the use of zinc in toothpaste is safe per se except for  children under the age of 1 year because the intake exceeds the upper limit level. For children up to 1 year  of age, the SCCS recommends a safe concentration of 0.72% for soluble zinc salts (as zinc) in toothpaste. The inclusion of zinc in mouthwash at 0.1% Zn is considered safe across all age groups. Reason for Change:  Daily dietary intake of zinc was not considered in Submission I. Submission II includes considerations of the reported dietary exposures, absorption kinetics, and the age  dependent usage of oral care products by consumers. Product list:  All cosmetic products. Source:  SCCS1. Water soluble zinc salts36Status until Nov-2023 Change The safety of fullerenes,  hydroxylated fullerenes and  hydrated forms of hydroxylated  fullerenes in cosmetic products was  not previously assessed by SCCS.On 3rd November 2023 – SCCS published a final opinion on  fullerenes, hydroxylated fullerenes and hydrated forms of  hydroxylated fullerenes (nano). Impact: The available evidence indicates that hydrated forms of hydroxylated fullerenes are genotoxic and  hence, SCCS considers them as not safe for use in cosmetic products. The same concerns over genotoxicity  potential apply to hydroxylated fullerenes. Reason for Change: To address the safety of fullerenes, hydroxylated fullerenes and hydrated forms of  hydroxylated fullerenes (nano) in cosmetics. Product list:  Oral care products. Source:  SCCS2. Fullerenes, hydroxylated fullerenes and hydrated forms of hydroxylated fullerenes  (nano) 37Status until Nov-2023 Change The presence of the substance must  be indicated in the list of ingredients  referred to in Article 19(1)g when its  concentration exceeds: - 0.001% in  leave-on products - 0.01% in rinse- off products.On 6th November 2023 – SSCS published a final opinion on benzyl  salicylate (CAS No. 118-58-1, EC No. 204-262-9). Impact: The finished product containing benzyl salicylate must comply with the details mentioned in the  below table. Reason for Change: Submission of new toxicological data by stakeholders led to further assessment. Product list:  All cosmetic products. Source: SCCS3. Benzyl salicylate  38  Status until Nov-2023 Change Allowed up to a maximum  concentration of 0.14 % (as acid) when used alone  or for the sum of its combined use  with other parabens or its salts in  all cosmetic product types, except  leave-on products. Not to be used in leave-on products  designed for application on the  nappy area of children under three  years of age.On 6th November 2023 – SCCS published a final opinion on  butylparaben (CAS No. 94-26-8, EC No. 202-318-7). Impact: SCCS concluded that the use of butylparaben as a preservative in cosmetics is safe up to 0.14%   (as acid). Reason for Change:  Submission of new toxicological data by stakeholders led to further assessment. Product list:  All cosmetic products. Source: SCCS4. Butylparaben 39Status until Nov-2023 Change In its first opinion ( Link), SCCS  has reported that hydroxypropyl  p-phenylenediamine and its  dihydrochloride salt were not safe when  used in oxidative hair coloring products  due to potential genotoxicity.On 6th November 2023 – SCCS published a preliminary  opinion open for comments on hydroxypropyl  p-phenylenediamine and its dihydrochloride salt (A165) -  deadline: 8 January 2024. Impact:  SCCS considers that hydroxypropyl p-phenylenediamine and its dihydrochloride salt are safe when  used in oxidative hair coloring products up to a maximum on-head concentration of 2%. A mild to moderate eye irritation potential of the test item cannot be excluded. Hydroxypropyl  p-phenylenediamine and its dihydrochloride salt are moderate skin sensitisers based on animal data. Reason for Change: Submission of new toxicological data by stakeholders led to further assessment. Product list: All cosmetic products. Source: SCCS5. Hydroxypropyl p-phenylenediamine and its dihydrochloride salt (A165) 40Status until Nov-2023 Change The safety of hexyl salicylate in  cosmetic products was not pre - viously assessed by SCCS.On 9th November 2023 – SCCS published a preliminary opinion  open for comments on hexyl salicylate – deadline: 12 January  2024. Impact:  SCCS considers hexyl salicylate safe when used up to the maximum concentrations as provided in  the table. Reason for Change: To address the safety of hexyl salicylate in cosmetics. Product list: All cosmetic products. Source:  SCCS6. Hexyl salicylate41 11. COSMETIC INGREDIENTS UPDATE       DEC 202342Status until Dec-2023 Change A submission III on aluminum was  published by the SCCS in February  2023, where it concluded that  aluminum compounds are safe  when used in non-sprayable product  categories at the maximum levels  indicated in Tables 4 and 6; and in  sprayable products, at the maximum  levels indicated in table 4, provided  that the percentage of particles/ droplets with a diameter of less  than 10 μm does not exceed 20%  of the total aerosolized particles/ droplets ( Link).On 15th December 2023-SCCS published a preliminary opinion open  for comments on the safety of aluminum in cosmetic products -  Submission IV (Deadline for comments: 16 February 2024). Impact:  The SCCS considers that aluminum compounds are safe when used : • in non-sprayable product categories at the maximum levels indicated in the table below • in sprayable products, at the maximum levels indicated in the table below, provided that the  percentage of particles/droplets with a diameter of less than 10 μm does not exceed 20% of  the total aerosolized particles/droplets. Since the applicant’s data submission indicated that  aluminum is not used in sunscreen aerosol sprays, this opinion does not cover sunscreen  aerosol sprays. • in talc because aluminum is not bioavailable from talc up to a level of 2%. Reason for Change: Updated use concentrations. This opinion specifically covers the risk to consumers from exposure to aluminum from cosmetic products. As such, this opinion does not address the safety of the use of talc in cosmetic products beyond the safety  of the aluminum content in talc. Product list:  All cosmetic products. Source:  SCCS1. Aluminum 43Status until Dec-2023 Change In safety evaluation by SCCNFP  in 1999, it was concluded that  benzophenone-4 can be used safely  in cosmetic sunscreen formulations  at a maximum concentration of 5%,  expressed as acid and proposed no  further restrictions or conditions for  its use in cosmetic products ( Link).On 15th December 2023- SCCS published a preliminary opinion  open for comments on benzophenone - 4 (deadline for comments:  16 February 2024). Impact: Based on the safety assessment, and considering the concerns related to potential endocrine  disrupting properties of benzophenone-4, the SCCS is of the opinion that benzophenone-4 is safe  when used as UV filter up to a maximum concentration of 5% in sunscreen, face and hand cream,  lipstick, sunscreen propellant spray and pump spray, when used separately or in combination (based on  deterministic aggregated exposure). Reason for Change:  Benzophenone-4 was one among the priority list of potential endocrine disruptors  which were not already covered by bans or restrictions in the Cosmetics Regulation for their subsequent  safety assessment. Hence, a call for data took place.  Product list: All cosmetic products.  Source:  SCCS2. Benzophenone-4 44Status until Dec-2023 Change SZZ was a prohibited substance in  cosmetic products. SCCS published a preliminary opinion  open for comments on silver zinc  zeolite in April.On 22nd December 2023 – SCCS published a final opinion on silver zinc zeolite. Impact:  The SCCS considers that SZZ incorporating a maximum silver content of 2.5% is safe in spray  deodorant and powder foundation when used at the proposed concentration of 1%. Reason for Change:  In May 2019, SZZ was added in entry 1597 of Annex II of Regulation (EC) No. 1223/2009  as a prohibited substance in cosmetic products. In August 2020, the Commission services received a dossier  submission by industry to support the safety assessment of SZZ as a preservative in cosmetic products,  in spray deodorant and powder foundation. A positive outcome of this assessment may support the de- listing of SZZ from Annex II and its inclusion under Annex V to the Cosmetics Regulation as an authorized  preservative. Product list:  All cosmetic products. Source:  SCCS3. Silver zinc zeolite45Status until Dec-2023 Change Preliminary opinion was published   in June.On 15th December 2023 – SCCS published a final opinion on  methylparaben. Impact: Based on the safety assessment considering all available data and the concerns related to  endocrine activity, the SCCS is of the opinion that the use of methylparaben as a preservative in cosmetic  products at concentrations of up to 0.4% (expressed as acid) is safe. Reason for Change:  Methyl paraben was one among the priority list of potential endocrine disruptors which  were not already covered by bans or restrictions in the Cosmetics Regulation for their subsequent safety  assessment. Hence, a call for data took place.  Product list:  All cosmetic products.  Source:  SCCS4. Methyl paraben 46Status until Dec-2023 Change Titanium dioxide is authorized both  as a colorant under entry 143 of  Annex IV and as UV-filter under  entries 27 and 27a (nano form) of  Annex VI to Regulation (EC) No.  1223/2009 (Cosmetics Regulation).  Considering its classification as  a Carcinogen Category 2 (i.e.  suspected human carcinogen)  by inhalation route only and its  inclusion in Annex VI to Regulation  (EC) No. 1272/2008 (CLP Regulation)  titanium dioxide was reassessed  by the SCCS. Subsequently, entry  321 in Annex III was introduced and  additional provisions in the existing  entries of 143 of Annexes IV and 27  and 27a of Annex VI were added that  further restricted the use of titanium  dioxide in cosmetic products.On 5th December 2023- SCCS published a preliminary scientific advice on titanium dioxide open  for comments – deadline: 6 February 2024. Impact: The SCCS considers that the available evidence is not sufficient to exclude the genotoxicity potential  of almost all the types of titanium dioxide grades (44 pigmentary and 40 nano grades) used in oral cosmetic  products. The only exception are two nano grades (RM09 and RM11) for which the provided genotoxicity  data indicate no genotoxicity concern. More information is, however, needed on the potential uptake and  cellular effects of the nano grades in the oral mucosa to consider them safe for use in oral-care products.  More experimental data are needed from studies carried out under valid protocols and appropriate testing  guidelines to exclude the genotoxicity potential of the selected representatives of the other grades of  titanium dioxide (both pigmentary and nano) used in oral cosmetic products. The conclusions drawn in previous SCCS opinions on dermally applied cosmetic products (SCCS/1516/13,  SCCS/1580/16) remain unchanged for the titanium dioxide grades and the coatings evaluated in those  opinions. The conclusions drawn in the previous opinions (and SCCS/1583/17, SCCS/1617/20) on the  safety of titanium dioxide used in specific cosmetic products that may lead to exposure by inhalation also  remain unchanged. Studies have indicated that oral mucosal cells are prone to the uptake of nanoparticles  (including titanium dioxide nanoparticles), as they may penetrate the mucous layer and may be internalized  by the epithelial cells. Considering that some oral products containing titanium dioxide nanoparticles, such  as toothpastes and mouthwashes, will be used every day and potentially more than once a day, further  investigations are needed to exclude the risk to the consumer from long-term repeated exposures of the  oral mucosa to titanium dioxide nanoparticles. Reason for Change:  In 2021, the EFSA panel has issued an opinion on titanium dioxide as a food additive,  where it has indicated a concern for genotoxicity. They have concluded that titanium dioxide should no  longer be considered as safe when used as a food additive. The commission has requested SCCS to re-assess  the safety of titanium dioxide with focus on genotoxicity and exposure via the inhalation and oral route  (lip care, lipstick, toothpaste, loose powder, and hair spray), since the currently available scientific evidence  supports an overall lack of dermal absorption of titanium dioxide particles. Product list: All cosmetic products. Source:  SCCS5. Titanium dioxide47 About ClinChoice ClinChoice is a global full-service CRO specializing in clinical development and functional  solutions for pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device, and consumer health  companies. We have over 28 years of proven high-quality delivery and results across all  our services. With over 4,000 professionals in more than 20 countries across the Americas,  Europe, and Asia-Pacific, we are positioned to fulfill our clients’ business requirements  locally and globally. We offer high-quality, full-service clinical development and post- marketing solutions. For our clients, it means a reliable partner and quality results. HEADQUARTERS   ClinChoice Inc. 1300 Virginia Drive, Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 USA Phone: +1 215 283 6035 Fax: +1 215 283 6382 Email:  info@clinchoice.com www.clinchoice.comCONTACT US


 
https://clinchoice.com/resources/
https://clinchoice.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/White-Paper-The-EU-Clinical-Trial-Regulation_Update-Nov23-v1.8.pdf
1 December 2023What You Need to KnowTHE EU  CLINICAL TRIALS REGULATION  White Paper 2Table of Contents INTRODUCTION  .................................................. ............................................................. 3 SIGNIFICANT CHANGES UNDER REGULATION  .............................................................. 3 Definitions ......................................................................................................................... 4 Initial Authorisation Procedure under CTR ....................................................................... 4  Submission .............................................................................................................. 4  Validation and Assessment ..................................................................................... 6  Decision .................................................................................................................. 7 Substantial Modification Procedure .................................................................................. 8 Addition of a Member State  ............................................................................................ 8 Streamlined Reporting ...................................................................................................... 9 Public Disclosure of Data ................................................................................................... 10 3-YEAR TRANSMISSION PERIOD  ..................................................................................... 11 CONCLUSION  .................................................................................................................... 13 BIBLIOGRAPHY ................................................................................................................. 15 ABOUT THE AUTHOR ....................................................................................................... 16 ABOUT CLINCHOICE ........................................................................................................ 17 CONTACT US .................................................................................................................... 183Introduction -  SIGNIFICANT CHANGES UNDER REGULATION As of 31 January 2022, the EU Clinical Trials Reg - ulation No 536/2014 (CTR) became applicable in  all EU/ European Economic Area (EEA) Member  States replacing the EU Clinical Trials Directive  (2001/20/EC) (CTD). On the same day, the Clinical  Trials Information System (CTIS), go-live version  was opened for users to submit clinical trials on  medicinal products for human use under a coordi - nation authorisation procedure. The deadline for the European Commission to  implement the CTR was to set up fully functional  portal which has workspace for sponsors, National  Competent Authorities (NCA) and the European  Commission. The portal which allows clinical trials’  sponsors to apply with a single application which  covers submissions to NCAs, Ethics Committees,  and public registration of the clinical trial in all EU/ EEA Member States. In July 2021, the European Commission announced  in the Official Journal of the European Commission  that the new portal named Clinical Trials Infor - mation System (CTIS) is fully functional and at the  same time, ready for use after six months of its  publication, on 31 January 2022. The announcement stated that Members States,  Sponsors and Contract Research Organizations  (CROs) started preparing intensively for the chang - es in the clinical trials environment. Fortunately, the CTR foresees a 3-year transition  period for sponsors to use CTIS. During the first year starting from the CTIS go-live  date until 31 January 2023, sponsors were able to  choose whether to apply for a new Clinical Trial  Application (CTA) under the regime of the CTD,  including using EudraCT, national portals or CESP  (Common European Submission Portal) or to apply  under the new CTR using CTIS.  During the second and third year until 30 January  2025, the EudraCT and CESP will not be available for new CTAs. From 31 January 2023, all new CTAs  must be submitted under the CTR using CTIS. CTAs  that were submitted under the CTD prior to 31  January 2023, will be able to continue to run and  be completed under CTD for an additional two  years maximum.   By 30 January 2025, trials submitted under the  CTD must either have ended in the EU/EEA or have  been transitioned to the CTR via CTIS.  If sponsors are conducting trials authorized under  the CTD and have at least one active site in the EU/ EEA on 30 January 2023, and they anticipate that  these trials will continue beyond 30 January 2025,  they will need to transition them to the CTR before  the transition period expires. However, clinical trials under the CTD that have  concluded in all EU/EEA Member States, even  if the global end of the trial has not yet been  reached, will not require transition. Additionally, data submitted through the CTIS are  collected and stored in the EU database. The CTIS  harmonises and simplifies the end-to-end appli - cation process over the life cycle of clinical trials,  harmonises assessment of safety reporting of  trials, accessing electronic reporting of Suspected  Unexpected Serious Adverse Reactions (SUSARs)  by Sponsors and re-routing to Member States,  providing one single decision. In addition, the CTIS  offers searchable clinical trial information to the  patient, healthcare professional and the general  public. The results of clinical trials are shared in  the CTIS in layman’s language. This white paper provides information on how to  be prepared for the new initial clinical trial autho - rization and substantial modification procedures  under CTR. Furthermore, it describes how to smoothly per - form the transition of ongoing studies into the  CTIS. Apart from that, it presents requirements  for streamlined reporting and public disclosure of  data.4SIGNIFICANT CHANGES UNDER REGULATION Definitions The Clinical Trials Regulation has retained some definitions and refined others. For example the definition  of “clinical study”: “Any investigation in relation to humans intended: (a) to discover or verify the clinical,  pharmacological or other pharmacodynamic effects of one or more medicinal products; (b) to identify any  adverse reactions to one or more medicinal products; or (c) to study the absorption, distribution, metabo - lism and excretion of one or more medicinal products” is similar to the definition in the CTD, but a “clinical  trial” is defined more narrowly as a subset of a clinical study. The CTR defines a non-interventional clinical  trial as “a clinical study other than clinical trial.” The CTR introduces new elements like Low-intervention Trial and Auxiliary Medicinal Product. A Low- in - tervention Trial is defined as a new category of a trial which must fulfil the main conditions mentioned in  the Regulation, but requires less stringent rules, for example, regarding insurance, monitoring and Inves - tigational Medicinal Product (IMP) traceability. The precise interpretation of this definition is left to each  Member State where an application for authorisation of a clinical trial or of a substantial modification will  be submitted (Member State Concerned; MSC). Auxiliary Medicinal Product (AxMP) is defined as a medici - nal product used in a clinical trial, for example, for background treatment or rescue medication, but not as  an investigational medicinal product. The CTR uses the term “substantial modification” instead of “substantial amendment” used by CAs and ECs  in accordance with the CTD. The two definitions are comparable and cover any changes to any aspect of the  clinical trial which is made after notification of a decision, and which is likely to have a substantial impact on  the safety or rights of the subjects or on the reliability and robustness of the data generated in the clinical  trial. Initial Authorisation Procedure under CTR Submission One of the main aims of the CTR for the authorisation procedure is for the sponsor/applicant to submit one  application dossier, including a single set of documents in harmonised format via the CTIS regardless of how  many Member States are participating in the trial. Each Member State issues one decision per study. The CTIS has sponsor workspace (for sponsors, Marketing Authorisation Applicants (MAAs)) and  authori ties’ workspace (for Member States, European Commission and European Medicines Agency  (EMA)). At the sponsor workspace, a sponsor or CRO must create the CTIS User Administrator role in the  system, which covers:   • Assigning new role or clinical trial access;    • Amending role or clinical trial access;    • Revoking role or clinical trials access; • Approving or rejecting user request for role. 5To get access to the CTIS, all users need to register by themselves in the EMA Identity and Access Man - agement System (IAM). Users receive their login credentials, a default role that allows them to access the  CTIS and perform a limited number of activities like to request a role or update personal profile. In order to  perform clinical trial activities for the particular study, the CTIS User Administrator needs to assign in the  system, the CT Admin who can be assigned to specific trial or all clinical trials for the organization. CTIS User  Administrator or CT Admin can assign user to study specific role in the CTIS.  In addition, sponsors need to create the Sponsor Admin role on their CTIS account. This role has full control  over monitoring the workflow of the clinical trial and can also assign new roles for specific clinical studies  for its organization. The assigned user with the role, for example, “submitter” can submit the harmonised format of the appli - cation dossier for the clinical trial simultaneously to all Member States where a clinical trial is going to be  conducted. The application dossier should consist of: • Part I Scientific Review – to be assessed jointly by all MSCs; and • Part II Ethical Review – to be assessed by each MSC’s Ethics Committee separately The required content of the application dossier is presented in Table 1. Table 1. List of required documents for the initial application under CTR Annex I, Application Dossier for the Initial Application: https://ec.europa.eu/health//sites/health/files/files/eudralex/vol-1/reg_2014_536/reg_2014_536_en.pdf Part I (Global, Scientific Review) Refers to Annex I of CTR (Sections B to J, Q)Part II (National, Ethical Review) Refers to Annex I of  CTR (Sections K to R) Information per Mem ber State  Concerned Labels EU Legal Representative if sponsor is out  from the EU/EEA Proof of payment of fee (information per  MSC)Scientific advice and Paediatric  Investigational Plan (PIP), if applicableCover Letter Recruitment arrangements specific for the MSC EU Application Form Subject Information, Informed Consent Form, and  Informed Concerned Procedure - in national language Protocol Suitability of the Investigator-specific for the MSC Investigator’s Brochure/ Summary of  Product Characteristic (SmPC)Suitability of the facilities-specific for the MSC Documentation relating to compliance  with GMP for the investigational medicinal  product (MIA, QP, CoA)Proof of Insurance cover or indemnification-global or  local Investigational Medicinal Product Dossier  (IMPD)Financial and other arrangements Auxiliary medicinal product dossier, if  applicableProof that data will be processed in compliance with  Union Law on Data protection 6The language used for the application dossier should be common in the medical field (i.e., English), but documents addressed to the subjects should be in their national and understood language(s). The CT  Admin/User “Submitter” can submit Part I and Part II together, but there is also the possibility for them to  submit only Part I for review and approval; Part II may be submitted up to two years after Part I assessment  has been completed. Part II dossier may include recently published by the European Commission, harmonised templates, and  documents such as Investigator Curriculum Vitae (CV), declaration of interest, site and facilities suitability,  recruitment and informed consent procedure, and payment of compensation. Using harmonised templates by NCAs or sponsors across all of the EU are not mandatory, but strongly rec - ommended by the European Commission. NCAs inform the applicants whether the harmonized templates  are accepted by them, and whether the templates must be translated or if they should use the specific  templates published on the NCAs’ websites.  In the application dossier, the sponsor shall propose one of  the MSCs as the Reporting Member State (RMS), which will coordinate the validation and evaluation of  the assessment process of the application. There should be one RMS for each study/protocol. If no MSC  is willing to be the RMS or more than one MSC is willing to be the RMS, then the RMS should be selected  by agreement among the MSCs. In case of only one MSC participating in the clinical trials that MSC will  automatically be the RMS. The RMS shall notify the sponsor and, if applicable, other MSCs, that is the RMS  within six working days from the submission of the application dossier through the CTIS. Validation and Assessment The overall process, when Part I (Scientific Review) and Part II (Ethical Review) are submitted together, con - sists of two steps: validation and assessment. The dossier is validated by the RMS within ten days from submission taking into account comments ex - pressed by the other MSCs. If there is no feedback from MSCs the application dossier shall be considered  complete. If there is a request for information or any inquiries, the RMS sends a request for information  (RFI) to the sponsor and one clock stop is allowed. The sponsor has maximum ten days to respond. The  sponsor’s failure to reply will lead to the automatic withdrawal of the application in all MSCs. The RMS has  five days following receipt of the response to confirm validation to the applicant. If the RMS has not noti - fied the sponsor within five days, the application dossier shall be considered complete. Once the validation process is completed, Parts I and II are assessed in parallel within 45 calendar days and  up to 76 calendar days if there are any questions requiring an extension. Assessment of Part I and Part II submissions is carried out as follows: • Part I Assessment: Scientific Part In case of a multinational trial all MSCs must collaborate in the evaluation and the 45 days reporting period  is then divided as follows: • Initial assessment: within 26 days the RMS submits an initial Part I draft assessment report to  MSCs (in case of trials involving an advanced therapy or a biotechnology medicinal product, the  RMS extends the period by 50 days); • Coordinated review: within 12 days MSCs review and provide comments to the RMS; • Consolidation: within seven days the RMS consolidates the input from MSCs. The RMS, considering issues raised by MSCs, may extend the reporting period up to 31 calendar days. Only  the RMS can request for information (RFI) from the sponsor. The sponsor has maximum 12 calendar days to  respond. Lack of response is considered as withdrawal of the application in all MSCs. The sponsor’s responses are sent to all MSCs for joint coordinated review and the MSCs provide feedback  to the RMS within 12 calendar days. The RMS consolidates the input from MSCs within seven days and pre - pares the final assessment report. • Part II Assessment: Ethical Part Part II covers aspects typically examined by Ethics Committees and is conducted separately by each MSC 7individually for its own territory. Each MSC shall complete its assessment of Part II within 45 calendar days  from the validation date. To obtain and review additional information from the sponsor the Ethics Committee (EC) or the National  Competent Authority on behalf of the EC, may issue RFI and at the same time extend the initial assessment  up to 31 calendar days. All MSCs and ECs have the same deadlines but, independently and separately, can  request for additional information. The sponsor gets maximum 12 calendar days to reply. In case of lack of  responses, the clinical trials submission will be withdrawn in all MSCs. Within the 31 days’ extension and  after receiving sponsor’s responses, each MSC has 19 days for final assessment of ethical review. Decision The Regulation says that within five days of the final Part I assessment report or Part II assessment by each  MSC, whichever is later, a single decision must be communicated to the sponsor. The Ethics Committee  review may encompass aspects addressed in Part I (Scientific) and Part II (Ethical) of the assessment report.  The final decision is made after Part I and Part II assessments are completed. The clinical trial may be found  acceptable or acceptable subject to conditions, or it may be refused for all MSCs. The overall process of  initial authorisation under the CTR is illustrated in Figure1. Submission Decision6 working  days RMS proposal   by sponsor or  selected by  agreement 5 calendar   days Completion  assessment   report for  Part I and  Part II10 calendar days   validatio n (If RFI +10 days for   the sponsor to  respond to   questions /+5 days for   RMS and CMS to   assess and discuss  responses )45 calendar days RMS/ MSC assessment Part I +50 calendar days for A TMPs 26 days Initial  assessment12 days Coordinated  review7 days Consolidation  phas e31 calendar days - clock sto p RMS requests RFI (12 days for the sponsor to  respond to questions / 19 days for RMS and CMS to   assess and discuss  responses ) 31 calendar days - clock sto p MSC requests RFI (12 days for the sponsor to  respond to questions / 19 days for RMS and CMS to   assess and discuss responses )45 calendar days Ethics Committee assessment   Part II +50 calendar days for   ATMPs Figure 1. An overall process of Initial Authorisation Procedure under CTR Chapter II, Authorisation Procedure for a Clinical Trial:  https://ec.europa.eu/health//sites/health/files/files/eudralex/vol-1/reg_2014_536/reg_2014_536_en.pdf Assessment8If a MSC does not give its decision within the regulated timeframe, then the conclusion of the RMS Part I  assessment report will automatically be considered as MSC decision. Where the conclusion of the RMS re - garding Part I of the assessment report and clinical trial is not acceptable, that conclusion shall be deemed  to be the conclusion of all MSCs. A MSC can refuse to authorise a clinical trial if it disagrees with the conclusion of the RMS regarding Part I  or an Ethics Committee can issue a negative opinion in a MSC. The MSC shall provide for an appeal proce - dure in respect of such refusal. Individual Member States may decline to participate in a trial even when others have already accepted it.  The application can be withdrawn at any time by the sponsor, up to the reporting date, but only if with - drawn in all MSCs. Resubmission of the clinical trial is possible in the MSC in which the study has been refused, but it will be  considered as a separate new Clinical Trial Application with a new EU CT number. Substantial Modification Procedure According to the CTR, only substantial modification needs approval prior to implementation. A substantial  modification may affect a change to Part I, Part II or to both parts of the submitted application dossier. The  RMS for the authorisation of a substantial modification shall be the same RMS as for the initial authorisa - tion procedure. If the substantial modification concerns only Part I (e.g., Protocol, Investigator’s Brochure,  or IMP Dossier), the RMS in cooperation with MSCs shall validate the application within six calendar days. If  there are any questions, the sponsor will get a maximum ten days to provide a response and the RMS five  days to confirm the validation. The assessment report shall be completed within 38 calendar days or 69  calendar days in case of request for additional information to the sponsor. Within five days, each MSC shall  communicate to the sponsor their decision on substantial modification. In cases where the substantial modification concerns only Part II (e.g., recruitment arrangement, addition - al site in a MSC) only the MSC, is involved in the assessment. The same timeframes apply for Part II as for  PartI, including 19 days for ethical review. When the changes affect both Parts I and II (e.g., change of main objective of the clinical trial or addition  of a trial arm, or placebo group), both will be run in parallel with the same timeframe. As is the case with  initial authorisation, the RMS will take the responsibility for coordinating the validation and evaluation of  the assessment process of the application. Addition of a Member State After a clinical trial has received the initial authorisation decision, the sponsor may apply to the same RMS  for adding another Member State. The procedures are the same as for initial submission. The CT Admin/ user “Submitter” must submit Part I and Part II through the CTIS for MSC evaluation, comments, or dis - agreement to the clinical trial. The submission shall be done through the CTIS and the MSC shall notify its  decision to sponsor within 52 calendar days or 83 calendar days depending on whether comments have  been raised and require an answer from the sponsor.9 Streamlined Reporting Under the CTR, the sponsor submits all Suspected Unexpected Serious Adverse Reactions (SUSARs) through  the dedicated new module of the EudraVigilance. The EudraVigilance clinical trial module for the electronic  reporting of SUSARs is upgraded in the CTIS. Upgraded module is a part of CTIS in accordance with Article  40 to 44 of the CTR and is maintained by the EMA. The EMA will forward the safety information electron - ically to all MSCs. The Annual Safety Report (ASR) (Development Safety Update Report (DSUR)) should be  submitted through the CTIS. SUSARs reporting should be shared with the Ethics Committees, but some  countries agreed that SUSARs will be not reported and reviewed by ECs. This task will be managed only by  NCAs. The European Commission published Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/20 setting up the rules and  procedures on the cooperation of the Member States in safety assessment of clinical trials. The Regulation  (EU) 2022/20 applied on 31 January 2022, on the same day as Date of Application (DoA) of the CTR and  CTIS go-live version. Implementing the regulation harmonizes rules concerning MS cooperation in assessing information report - ed to the relevant Ethics Committee. The EMA is also a controller of the CTIS and is responsible for avoiding  unnecessary duplication between the EU database and the EudraCT and EudraVigilance databases. The safety reporting via upgraded EudraVigilance module in the CTIS is effective on 31 January 2022. It  streamlines safety reporting and end-to-end electronic solution for safety reporting of clinical trials. The  CTR has kept the same timeframes for reporting SUSARs and ASRs as specified under the CTD: fatal and  life- threatening SUSARs - as soon as possible and in any event not later than seven days after the sponsor  became aware of the reaction; other SUSARs - within 15 days; and ASR - yearly. The CTD had no provisions to notify the CA/EC of the start of a clinical trial(first patient first visit; FPFV). The  only requirement was to inform the CA/EC about: the end of the trial (within 90 days);  a temporary halt and early termination (within 15 days). The CTR requires harmonised reporting of all clin - ical trial lifecycle events by obligating the sponsor or his delegated user (e.g., Contract Research Organisa - tion (CRO)) to notify each MSC within 15 days of all events listed in Table 2. The notification of events must  be managed through the CTIS.10Notification to be submitted Timeframe permitted Start of the trial in each MS Within 15 days Inclusion of first patient in each MS Within 15 days End of recruitment in each MS Within 15 days End of trial in EEA to all MSC Within 15 days Early termination to each MSC Within 15 days Global end of trial (including third world countries) to all MSCs Within 15 days Temporary halt and reason to each MSC (max. 2 years) Within 15 days Restart clinical trial after temporary halt to each MSC (SM  when halt was due to safety)Within 15 days Restart recruitment = Restart clinical trial Unexpected events Within 15 days Serious breach report Within 7 days Urgent safety measures Within 7 days Third country Inspectorate inspection No timelines Table 2. Clinical trial lifecycle: notification of events within 15 days (CHAPTER VI, START, END, TEMPORARY HALT, and EARLY TERMINATION OF A CLINICAL TRIAL): https://ec.europa.eu/health//sites/health/files/files/eudralex/vol-1/reg_2014_536/reg_2014_536_en.pdf Public Disclosure of Data Prior to 1 May 2004 when EudraCT database was established, clinical trial information was confidential and  available only to Member States’ Competent Authorities, the EMA, and the European Commission. After 21  July 2014, it became mandatory for sponsors to post clinical trials results in the EudraCT database. Accord - ing to the CTR, the EU database should contain all relevant clinical trial information submitted through  the CTIS. The information must be available publicly and includes: inclusion and exclusion criteria; main  objectives and endpoints; the start and end dates of patient recruitment; and the trial end date. However,   subject personal data cannot be entered into the CTIS. To protect an individual’s right to privacy and rights  to personal data protection, some information regarding clinical trials need to be anonymised. To maintain  confidentiality, certain documents must be submitted in two versions: one for publication (redacted) and  one for non-publication (not redacted). In October 2023, the EMA (European Medicines Agency) adapted revised transparency rules for CTIS,  including its public portal. The implementation of the new CTIS public website is planned for the second  quarter of 2024. The effective date of completion and application of the new rules will be communicated to  CTIS users before they become applicable. Prior to the technical implementation of the revised rules on the CTIS public website, certain information  will not be published. For Part I, the IMPD (Investigational Medicinal Product Dossier) IMPD Quality and  correspondence with authorities regarding this document will remain confidential. Similarly, for Part II,  financial and other arrangements with principal investigators and/or sites will not be disclosed. Therefore,  the submission of redacted versions of these documents is not required. Prior the launch of the new CTIS public website, Sponsors have the option to apply for deferral in the pub -11lication of clinical trials information in the CTIS. Deferral requests must be submitted only with the initial  Clinical Trial Application. For instance, for Phase II and III studies, sponsors may request to defer the publi - cation of the study protocol for up to 5 years after the end of the trials in the EU/EEA. Upon the launch of the new go-live CTIS public website, the deferral mechanism will be removed. This  decision aims to provide patients with access to key data and documents as early as possible, enhancing  awareness of potential treatment options. However, certain documents, such as protocols, patient-facing  documents, SmPC (Summary of Product Characteristics), subject information and informed consent forms,  and recruitment arrangement documents will never be published. Additionally, all other documents includ - ing IMPD Q, IB and Member State documents, will also remain confidential. The outcome of a clinical trial will also be published in the CTIS. The sponsor shall submit a summary of the  results of the clinical trial to the CTIS within one year from the end of a clinical trial in all MSCs (as set out  in Annex IV of the CTR). It shall be also accompanied by a summary written in a manner that is understand - able to laypersons and translated into the Member State’s national language (as set out in Annex V). In addition, when clinical trials are intended to be used for obtaining a marketing authorisation for the  medicinal product, the marketing authorisation applicant shall submit to the CTIS, the Clinical Study Re - port (CSR) within 30 days after “ the day the marketing authorisation has been granted, the procedure for  granting the marketing authorisation has been completed, or the applicant for marketing authorisation has  withdrawn the application. ” 3-YEAR TRANSMISSION PERIOD   By 30 January 2025, all clinical trials authorised under the CTD and only with active clinical trials without  ongoing document assessments in any EU/EEA countries are eligible for transition. In the context of transi - tion, an “active site” is defined as one where the last subject visit or trial-specific intervention is scheduled  to occur on or after 30 January 2025.   The primary aim of transitioning clinical trials from the CTD to CTR is to streamline the administrative pro - cess and minimize assessments by Member States to meet the minimum requirements. There are essential principles for transitional trials:   • No reassessment of previously assessed documents. • No requirement for template updates. • No retrospective creation of a site suitability form. Before transitioning a study, sponsors should consider three possible scenarios: Scenario 1: If key documents (e.g., Protocol, IB, or IMPD) have already been approved in all relevant Mem -12ber States under the CTD, the sponsor can transition to the CTR by submitting a Clinical Trial Application  (CTA) to CTIS without needing a substantial amendment under the CTD. The sponsor should declare the  approval of these documents in all relevant Member States under the CTD in a cover letter via CTIS. Scenario 2: If there are minor substantial or non-substantial differences in these documents across Mem - ber States (e.g., related to subject population age groups or administrative details), a consolidated version  may be transitioned as a single new version, without prior submission under the CTD. The sponsor should  declare that no substantial content differences exist beyond these minor discrepancies. Scenario 3: In cases where there are significant substantial differences among Member States regarding the  Protocol, IB, or IMPD, a substantial amendment (under the CTD) should be submitted to NCAs and Ethics  Committees in the Member States where the trial is ongoing. This is necessary to harmonize these aspects  of the documents across Member States before transitioning the trial to the CTR. Moreover, the estimated timeline for the transition process to the CTR, including validation, assessment,  and decision phases, may range from 22 to 60 calendar days. The validation process takes 10 calendar days,  including six working days for RMS selection in the case of multinational studies. Additional Part II docu - ments may be requested for some studies, with a 10-day period provided for the sponsor to respond. The assessment phase may take seven calendar days if there are no requests for further information from  MSCs. A decision from each Member State in the EU should be issued within five days. After receiving the decision, the sponsor should submit the first substantial modification via CTIS for Part I  and/or Part II to align with CTR requirements. Part I should be completed for the relevant dossier elements,  and non-redacted versions should be replaced with versions for publication at the time of the first sub - stantial modification application. For Part II, the sponsor should complete the relevant dossier elements,  excluding the retrospective creation of a site suitability statement. There is no requirement to upload new  template documents for trial procedures that have already been completed.13CONCLUSION Without a doubt, the Clinical Trials Regulation changes the rules for authorisation of all phases (I-IV) of clin - ical trials on medicinal products for human use. It harmonises and centralises the processes from the start  to the end of clinical trials. In addition, the information relating to clinical trials becomes publicly available. An independent CTIS audit, improving usability, quality, and stability of the CTIS successfully finished, and  on 31 July 2021, a major CTIS milestone had been reached. This allowed the European Commission to  publish the full functionality of the CTIS, and the same announced on 31 January 2022 as the date of CTR  application in the EU/EEA countries. To prepare everyone from the clinical trials environment, the EMA has  published the CTIS Sponsor Handbook, providing key guidance, technical information and references for  sponsors and collaborating organisations. Moreover, the EMA was hosting several webinars on how end  users can prepare for CTIS. The European Commission published harmonised templates and documents to support sponsors of clinical  trials when submitting Part II elements of the application under the CTR. A number of clinical trials guidance documents in Volume 10 of the EudraLex 10-volume collection of rules  governing medicinal products in the EU are being revised and updated by the European Commission to  bring them in line with the changes required by the CTR. The European Commission updates progressively  Questions and Answers Document - Regulation (EU) 536/2014 and discusses some inconclusive questions  with the Expert Group on Clinical Trials.  As of 31 January 2022, the Clinical Trials Regulation became applicable automatically for all EU Member  States. Preparing for the changes was a challenge not only for sponsors or CROs but also for Member  States. They had to set up communications between the National CA and the Ethics Committee, and to exe - cute ethical review of the trial for the entire territory. The CTR does not give instructions on how to manage  cooperation with the Ethics Committees. It says only that each MS is responsible for ensuring the Ethics  Committee meets CTR timelines and procedures for the ethical assessment Part II. Furthermore, the sponsors and CROs must take into consideration some aspects of transitional trials from  the CTD to CTR. They should start preparations for submitting the applications early enough before 30 Jan - uary 2025.  In addition to revising the transparency rules, the EMA will require sponsors to provide fewer documents  that necessitate redaction of confidential commercial information (CCI) and personal data. This change is  expected to expedite the preparation of the Clinical Trial Application (CTA) dossier. Removing the deferral  mechanism will grant patients earlier access to information, facilitating the prompt initiation of trials and  enrollment. To ensure easier access to pertinent clinical trial information, the revised CTIS transparency rules will in - troduce a more user-friendly CTIS public website. Changes are intended to simplify access to information  for clinical trial stakeholders, increase awareness of possible treatment options, rationalise the amount of  clinical trial data that needs to be published and eliminate deferrals, resulting in earlier access to important  documents. Many sponsors have relied on the deferral mechanism to delay publication of clinical trial documents with  minimal redactions of CCI. As a result, ClinChoice recommends that sponsors may need to revise their inter - nal procedures for managing CCI and fulfilling their transparency obligations under the CTR. Sponsors also  should ensure that all personnel involved in the submission of clinical trial applications are appropriately  trained on the requirements of the new CTIS transparency rules ahead of entry into application of these  rules in 2024.14The revised CTIS transparency rules are expected to apply in the second quarter of 2024, once their techni - cal implementation in the CTIS has been finalised. The EU CTR ushered the EU and EEA countries into a new era, in the way clinical trials are conducted for  sponsors, Member States, CROs and especially for patients whose rights, safety, dignity and well-being will  be better protected. Sponsors and their delegated users should become familiar with CTR requirements ex - plained in this white paper for initial authorization, substantial modification, reporting safety information,  notification of clinical trial events and plan properly for the transition of ongoing clinical trials from CTD to  CTR.15BIBLIOGRAPHY Clinical trials - Regulation EU No 536/2014 _European Commission - 16 April 2014   https://ec.europa.eu/health/human-use/clinical-trials/regulation_en EudraLex - Volume 10 - Clinical trials guidelines   https://ec.europa.eu/health/documents/eudralex/vol-10_en Functional specifications for the EU portal and EU database to be audited, EMA/42176/2014 Rev. 1 - 25 March 2015 https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/other/functional-specifications-european-union-eu-portal- and-eu-database-be-audited_en.pdf Clinical Trials Regulation (Eu) No 536/2014 Questions & Answers, Version 6.6 - September 2023   https://health.ec.europa.eu/system/files/2023-09/regulation5362014_qa_en.pdf  Clinical Trials Information System (CTIS) - Sponsor Handbook -  11 April 2023 https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/other/clinical-trial-information-system-ctis-sponsor- handbook_en.pdf Appendix, on disclosure rules, to the “Functional specifications for the EU portal and EU database to be  audited - EMA/42176/2014” - 2 October 2015  https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/other/appendix-disclosure-rules-functional-specifications-eu- portal-eu-database-be-audited_en.pdf Guidance for the Transition of clinical trials from the Clinical Trials Directive to the Clinical Trials Regulation-  19 July 2023 https://health.ec.europa.eu/system/files/2023-07/transition_ct_dir-reg_guidance_en.pdf Clinical Trials Regulation (EU) No 536/2014 in practice, quick guide, Version 03 - 28 August 2023   https://health.ec.europa.eu/system/files/2023-09/mp_ctr-536-2014_guide_en.pdf Revised transparency rules for the EU Clinical Trials Information System (CTIS)- 06 October 2023 https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/news/revised-transparency-rules-eu-clinical-trials-information-system-ctis16About the Author About the Author David R. Dills   Director, Regulatory Services  ClinChoice David joined the company in 2018 as Regulatory Services Director. He has more than 33 years of leadership  experience in the pharmaceutical and medical device industry within the regulatory affairs and compliance  space. He has held positions of increasing responsibility with sponsors and service providers of various sizes,  including large, global OEM’s/sponsors, consultancies and a global CRO, as well as virtual, small, mid, and  large-sized enterprises. He has worked with clients in ASEAN/APAC, EMEA and The Americas, and certainly with FDA and the global  Health Authorities with product portfolios covering multiple therapeutic areas and medical specialties. He is providing the global regulatory capabilities and regulatory intelligence support for clients and collab - orating with our internal stakeholders. In addition, to being a professional member with industry associa - tions, advisory boards, prolific speaker at industry events, he navigates the regulatory landscape through - out the product life cycle and regulatory crisis management. In addition, David is responsible for the  development and launch of new services in the regulatory and strategic consulting space.   This white paper was collaboratively crafted with the assistance and input on behalf of fellow colleagues  from the Regulatory Services team. 17 About ClinChoice ClinChoice is a leading full-service clinical CRO offering high-quality solutions to pharmaceutical,  biotechnology, medical device and consumer products clients. We contribute to a safer and better  world by helping our sponsor clients accelerate drug and device approvals to market. We do this  by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a  flexible approach, and dedicated teams who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Our commitment to the highest quality standards, flexibility, and timeline fulfillment has earned  us and our clients consistent results. We provide services for the full development lifecycle to a  wide range of clients, large and small, including six of the top 10 pharmaceutical companies, as  well as small to midsize biotechnology companies. For us, our record of quality means consistency,  accuracy and reliability. For you, it means a reliable partner and quality results. 18Contact us ClinChoice Inc. 1300 Virginia Drive, Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 USA Phone: +1 215 283 6035 Fax: +1 215 283 6382 Email: info@clinchoice.com ClinChoice No. 420 Fenglin Road Floor 11 Xuhui District Shanghai 430000, China Email: bd@clinchoice.com ClinChoice Private Ltd. #729 8th Main 11th Cross, J.P . Towers JP Nagar 3rd Phase Bangalore - 560 076 Karnataka, India Phone: +91 80 2658 5551 Email: info@clinchoice.com ClinChoice Canada Inc. 2 Robert Speck Pkwy Mississauga, ON L4Z 1H8, Canada Phone: +1 215 283 6035  Email: info@clinchoice.comClinChoice Limited Suite G48 268 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 4DX Berkshire, United Kingdom Phone: +44 1628 566121 Email: europe@clinchoice.com ClinChoice Inc. 17th Floor  Wynsum Corporate Plaza  22 F. Ortigas Jr. Road, Ortigas  Center Pasig City, - 1605 The Philippines  Phone: +632 8633 5176 Email: info@clinchoice.com CROMSOURCE A                   Company Via Giorgio De Sandre, 3 37135 Verona - Italy Phone: +39 045 8222811  Email: cromsource@cromsource.comClinChoice LLC 3 Barbusse, 0028 Yerevan, Armenia Phone: +374 60 541515 Email: europe@clinchoice.com ClinChoice K.K THE GATE NIHONBASHI Bld.  3FHigashi Nihonbashi 3-4-1,  Chuo-ku  Tokyo 104-0031 Japan  Phone: +81 3 6228 7360  Email: japan@clinchoice.com www.clinchoice.com


 
https://clinchoice.com/resources/
https://clinchoice.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/Regulatory-Intelligence-of-Cosmetics_EU-NewsLetter-Jul-Sep23-v2.pdf
w w w . c l i n c h o i c e . c o m (Publication date Sep 25, 2023) European Commission (EC) has adopted measures restricting microplastics intentionally added to  products under the EU chemical legislation Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction  of Chemicals (REACH). This restriction will come into force later this week once it is published in  the Official Journal of the EU. The ban uses a broad definition of microplastics –it covers all  synthetic polymer particles below five millimeters that are organic, insoluble and resist  degradation. Cosmetics where microplastics are used for multiple purposes, such as exfoliation  (microbeads) or obtaining a specific texture, fragrance, or color, will no longer be allowed.  Read More   (Publication date Aug 02, 2023) The EU has introduced a crucial amendment to its Cosmetic Regulation that focuses on the labeling  of fragrance allergens in cosmetic products. Commission Regulation (EU)2023/1545, which was  introduced on July 26, 2023, amends Regulation (EC) No 1223/2009 of the European Parliament.  The committee identified 56 new fragrance allergens, which have been known to cause allergies in  humans but currently lack individual labelling requirements. Considering the SCCS opinion and the  potential risk to human health associated with these additional fragrance allergens, the EU  deemed it necessary to inform consumers about their presence in cosmetic products.  Consequently, Commission Regulation (EU) 2023/1545 introduces an obligation to individually label  these fragrance allergens when their concentration exceeds 0.001% in leave -on products and  0.01% in rinse -off products. Read More   (Publication date Aug 08, 2023) On 8th August 2023, the European Commission published Delegated Regulation (EU)2023/1608 of  30 May 2023, which amend Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2019/1021 of 30 May 2023. This relates to  persistent organic pollutants (POP), which updates specially concerning perfluorohexane sulfonic  acid ( PFHxS ), its salts and PFHxS -related compounds, which have been adopted in the new version  published.The amendment adds the substance Perfluorohexane sulfonic acid ( PFHxS ), its salts and  PFHxS related compounds to Part A of Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2019/1021 (POP), which lists  substances prohibited to be used for manufacturing, placing on the European market, and use. Read More  (Publication date September 15, 2023) There is an ongoing call for data on the safety of Cannabidiol (CBD) in cosmetic products. On June  1, 2023, the European Commission invited all interested parties to submit any scientific  information about the use of CBD in cosmetics. The consultation will remain open until September  30, 2024. The data collected will be the basis for mandating the Scientific Committee on Consumer  Safety (SCCS) to assess the safety of CBD in cosmetics as well as the safe trace level of  Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC). This process aims at harmonising the rules at the EU level on the use of CBD in cosmetic products.  Indeed, in recent years, several EU Member States have raised concerns about the potential risk of  CBD for consumers’ health and, at the moment, there are some national discrepancies. Read More (Publication date July 26, 2023) EU released the Commission Decision (EU) 2023/1540 to amend the Ecolabel criteria for cosmetic  products. These amendments primarily pertain to the wording of provisions within the criteria, and  came into force upon their release.1 Read More (Publication date July 21, 2023) The European Commission (EC) is banning several cosmetic ingredients identified as carcinogenic,  mutagenic and toxic for reproduction (CMR). The governing body has listed the chemicals in the  amendment of Annexes II of the Cosmetics Regulation (EC) No 1223/2009. Starting December  2023, beauty and personal care products containing any CMR substances will be prohibited from  being made available or commercialized in the EU. The updated regulation is part of the EC Omnibus Act VI, formally EU Regulation 2023/1490. The  ingredients used in cosmetics formulations that have been added to the banned ingredient list  include ammonium bromide, benzophenone, tellurium dioxide and 27 others. Read More(Publication date July 04, 2023) The European Union Scientific Committee on Consumer Safety (SCCS) published the preliminary  opinion on water -soluble zinc salts (SCCS/1657/23). The deadline for comments is set for  September 8, 2023. The SCCS has calculated aggregate exposure to water -soluble zinc salts via toothpaste at the  concentrations of 1% and from diet and concluded that the use of zinc in toothpaste is safe per se  except for children under the age of one because the intake exceeds the upper limit level. For  children up to the age of one, the SCCS recommends a safe concentration of 0.72% for soluble zinc  salts (as zinc) in toothpaste. The inclusion of zinc in mouthwash at 0.1% is considered safe across  all age groups. Read More  (Publication date 22 September 2023) In view of the conclusions of SCCS/1633/21 and the aggregate exposure, the SCCS considers the  use of Methyl Salicylate as safe in cosmetic products intended for children of age 0.5 -3 years when  used up to a maximum concentration of 0.02% in shower gel, hand soap, shampoo, body lotion,  face cream, hand cream, lip products and hair conditioner. For toothpaste up to a maximum  concentration of 2.52% methyl salicylate is considered safe. As no specific data were provided by the applicant for children below 6 months, the SCCS has not  considered this age category in this safety assessment. Read More (Publication date August 07, 2023) The U.S. Food and Drug Administration issued a draft guidance which, once finalized, will assist  cosmetics companies submitting cosmetic product facility registrations and cosmetic product  listings, including ingredients, to the FDA. This includes a wide range of products such as makeup  products, nail polishes, shaving creams and other grooming products, perfumes, face and body  cleansers, haircare products, moisturizers, and other skincare products. Read More (Publication date July 13, 2023) Health Canada released a notice concerning the review of several amendments to the Cosmetic  Ingredient Hotlist. Companies are welcome to contact Health Canada (cosmetics@hc -sc.gc.ca)  before October 11, 2023 to provide safety information or other considerations about the proposed  ingredients, which may further inform Health Canada's decisions. Information that are  recommended to be provided includes: •Additions to the Hotlist; •Changes to the existing requirements in the Hotlist; •Proposal to include additional ingredient identifiers or make minor corrections. Read More (Publication date September 18, 2023) Most American consumers use cosmetic products every day. On average people use 6 to 12  cosmetics products daily. Examples of some of these products include makeup, nail polishes,  shaving cream and other grooming products, perfumes, face and body cleansers, haircare  products, moisturizers, and other skincare products. The Modernization of Cosmetics Regulation Act of 2022 ( MoCRA ) is the most significant expansion  of FDA’s authority to regulate cosmetics since the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic (FD&C) Act  was passed in 1938. This new law will help ensure the safety of cosmetic products many  consumers use daily Read More(Publication date Jul11, 2023) The 37th ASEAN Cosmetic Scientific Body (ACSB) meeting was held on May 8 -9, 2023, during which  new amendments to the ingredient annexes to ASEAN Cosmetic Directive (ACD) were approved.  These amendments will officially take effect on May 8, 2025. 1.The 37th ASEAN Cosmetic Scientific Body (ACSB) meeting adopted new changes to cosmetic  ingredient annexes: List of prohibited ingredients: 19 entries added  2.List of restricted ingredients: 2 entries added  3.List of permitted preservatives: 1 entry revised  4.List of permitted UV filters: 2 entries revised Read More (Publication date August 18, 2023) NIFDC aims to revise the Technical Specification for the Safety of Cosmetics, expanding the scope  of application of existing inspection methods to toothpaste, and adding physical and chemical  inspection methods for toothpaste. The deadline for project application is August 27, 2023. Read More (Publication date August 08, 2023) In order to do a good job in formulating standards related to toothpaste, the China Institute for  Food and Drug Control, in accordance with the "Cosmetics Supervision and Administration  Regulations" and related work arrangements, publicly solicited units responsible for the toothpaste  efficacy evaluation standard formulation project.  NIFDC aims to formulate the following toothpaste efficacy evaluation standards: • Efficacy Evaluation of Toothpaste: General Principles • Efficacy Evaluation of Toothpaste: Anti -caries • Efficacy Evaluation of Toothpaste: Control of Dental Plaque • Efficacy Evaluation of Toothpaste: Anti -dentin Hypersensitivity • Efficacy Evaluation of Toothpaste: Gum Problems Alleviatio Read More(Publication date September 14, 2023) Under Vietnamese regulations, introducing cosmetics to the market requires prior notification to  the authorities, which must be fulfilled for imported cosmetic products before the products cross  the Customs Gate. Consequently, to allow sufficient time for the requisite cosmetic notification  procedure, thorough preplanning is imperative for enterprises intending to launch new products. Furthermore, cosmetic notification in Vietnam is valid for five years from the date of issuance.  Noteworthy alterations to the products may mandate a fresh cosmetic notification. Therefore,  importers must ensure the utilization of accurate and valid cosmetic notifications for their  imported cosmetic products. Read More w w w . c l i n c h o i c e . c o m Global HQ Fort Washington - USA 


 
https://clinchoice.com/resources/
https://clinchoice.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/Global-Cosmetics-Regulatory-Intelligence-Apr23-Jun23.pdf
w w w . c l i n c h o i c e . c o m (Publication date 20 April 2023) The European Commission has updated the Classification, Labelling and Packaging Regulation with  the following hazard classes: •endocrine disruptors (ED) for human health or the environment; •persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic (PBT); very persistent and very bioaccumulative (vPvB );  and •persistent, mobile, and toxic (PMT); very persistent and very mobile ( vPvM ). Companies and Member State authorities can use current guidance on identifying endocrine  disruptors and on PBT (persistence, bioaccumulation, toxicity) assessment until the guidance on  applying the CLP criteria has been updated. It is expected to be ready in 2024. Read More     (Publication date 27 April 2023) The Commission welcomes the positive vote of the EU countries on the REACH committee for its proposal to  restrict microplastics that are intentionally added to products. The Preliminary Opinion is open for comments : The proposal will now be subject to a 3 -month scrutiny.  Readmore   (Publication date 16 May 2023) In the SCCS/1633/21 Opinion, the Committee concluded that Methyl Salicylate in toothpaste is safe for  children under 6 years of age when used up to the maximum concentration of 2.52%.  In view of the  conclusions of SCCS/1633/21 and the aggregate exposure, the SCCS considers the use of Methyl Salicylate as  safe in cosmetic products intended for children of age 0.5 -3 years when used up to a maximum  concentration of 0.02% in shower gel, hand soap, shampoo, body lotion, face cream, hand cream, lip  products. For toothpaste up to a maximum concentration of 2.52% methyl salicylate is considered safe. Read More (Publication date 16 May 2023) MAIN CHANGES IN 12TH REVISION OF THE SCCS NOTES OF GUIDANCE (NOG)  The NoG have been revised and updated with emphasis on the following:  •Importance of systematic literature review  •Updating of animal -free alternative methods: NAM (New Approach Methodology), changes introduced  for acute inhalation, skin irritation testing, eye irritation testing with DAL (Defined Approach for eye  irritation, Liquid), DASS (Defined Approaches for Skin Sensitisation ), new in vitro methods for genotoxicity  testing (3D skin Comet; in vitro micronucleus)  Read More  (Publication date 26 May 2023) On May 23, 2023, EU notified WTO of a draft Commission Regulation which proposed to revise the  prohibited and restricted ingredient lists in Regulation (EC) No 1223/2009 (Cosmetics Regulation).  This draft measure was previously notified under EU/TBT/ 872, but is modified now to newly  include the prohibition of Colloidal Silver (nano) and the restriction of Hydroxyapatite (nano).  The Preliminary Opinion is open for comments: Deadline for comments: July 22, 2023  Read More (Publication date 14 June 2023) ECHA has added two new chemicals to the Candidate List. One is toxic for reproduction and the other has  very persistent and very bioaccumulative hazardous properties. They are used, for example, in inks and  toners and in the production of plastic products. Read More (Publication date 20 June 2023) ECHA’s Enforcement Forum agreed to launch an EU -wide project to check that products sold online comply  with REACH restrictions and the requirements of the Classification, Labelling and Packaging (CLP) Regulation.  Its subgroup on Biocidal Products Regulation, BPRS, agreed to launch a project on labelling of biocidal  products. Inspections in this REACH -EN-FORCE (REF) -13 project will take place in 2025. The objective is to check that  products, such as toys, common household goods or chemicals, sold online comply with REACH restrictions.  Inspectors will also check that mixtures are classified, labelled, and packaged in line with CLP and that online  offers include the required information about the hazards of the mixture. Inspectors may also check  compliance with restrictions under the Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs) Regulation and the Restriction of  Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive. Read More (Publication date Jun 28, 2023) On June 8, 2023, the European Union issued a notification G/TBT/N/EU/986 to the World Trade Organization  (WTO), proposing to revise the following appendices of the EU Cosmetics Regulation (EC) No 1223/2009: •List of Substances Prohibited in Cosmetic Products (Appendix II); •List of Substances Restricted in Cosmetic Products (Appendix III); •List of Preservatives Allowed in Cosmetic Products (Appendix V); and •List of UV Filters Allowed in Cosmetic Products (Appendix VI). Preliminary Opinion open for comments: Deadline for comments: August 7, 2023 Read More (Publication date 09 June 2023) On December 15, 2022, EU Scientific Committee on Consumer Safety (SCCS) initiated a two -month  public consultation on the preliminary opinion on Salicylic Acid (CAS No. 69 -72-7). considering into  account the feedback received, SCCS published the final opinion on June 9, 2023 .  Read More  (Publication date 13 June 2023) On June 13, 2023, EU Scientific Committee on Consumer Safety (SCCS) published the preliminary opinion on  the use of Benzyl Salicylate (CAS No. 118 -58-1) in cosmetics.  Benzyl Salicylate commonly serves a perfuming function in cosmetics. As an established contact allergen in  humans, it is a restricted ingredient currently regulated under Regulation (EC) No 1223/2009 (Cosmetics  Regulation), and subject to individual labelling requirement. To comply with this requirement, its presence  shall be indicated in the ingredients list on product packaging when its concentration exceeds 0.001% in  leave -on products and 0.01% in rinse -off products. Preliminary Opinion open for comments: Deadline for comments: August 24, 2023 Read More (Publication date 21 June 2023) On June 19, 2023, the EU notified WTO of a draft regulation aiming at amending the Annex XVII to  Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 Concerning the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of  Chemicals (REACH). This draft proposes to prohibit the use of Undecafluorohexanoic Acid ( PFHxA ), its salts,  and related substances in various applications, including cosmetics. Preliminary Opinion open for comments: Deadline for comments: August 18, 2023 Read More (Publication date 27 June 2023) On June 22, 2023, EU introduced new amendments to the Annex XVII to Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006  Concerning the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) through a draft  regulation notified to WTO. This draft proposes to further restrict the use of Octamethylcyclotetrasiloxane (D4), Decamethylcyclopentasiloxane (D5), and Dodecamethylcyclohexasiloxane (D6) in cosmetics as well as  other consumer and professional products.  Preliminary Opinion open for comments: Deadline for comments: August 21, 2023 Read More (Publication date 11 Apr 2023) Health Canada has launched a consultation on its proposal to mandate the disclosure of fragrance - based allergens on cosmetics labels, according to a report published by Lexology . The consultation  is open to the industry, stakeholders,  Preliminary Opinion open for comments: Deadline for comments: April 22, 2023 Read More (Publication date 26 April 2023) In the Budget, the government proposes to amend the Food and Drugs Act to ban cosmetic testing  on animals. The proposed amendments would prohibit: •testing cosmetics on animals in Canada. •selling cosmetics that rely on animal testing data to prove the product’s safety, with some  exceptions. •false or misleading labelling related to the testing of cosmetics on animals. The proposed policy will align with the animal testing ban in the EU, as well as fit and be workable  within the Canadian regulatory framework. Preliminary Opinion open for comments: Deadline for comments: August, 2023 Read More (Publication date 03 May 2023) California’s Department of Toxic Substances Control proposes adding microplastics to its list of Candidate  Chemicals, which would not have a regulatory impact at first but could lead to Priority Product selections,  alternatives analyses, and regulatory responses to reduce or eliminate adverse impacts to public health and  the environment. Microplastic -containing cosmetics are among products in the DTSC's line of sight. Read More (Publication date 18 May 2023) Agency has increased its efforts to protect the US market from the diethylene glycol and ethylene  glycol adulteration linked to hundreds of deaths in seven countries with testing, remote records  requests, inspections, import alerts and more. Manufacturing quality compliance director Francis  Godwin stresses importance of testing every container, while sharing tips for simplifying the task.  Read More (Publication date 22 May 2023) Cosmetics industry stakeholders agree the US Federal Trade Commission’s “Green Guides” are ripe  for an update. Issues old and new need to be addressed and state -level laws and regulations  considered along with national and international programs and standards, say leading companies,  trade associations, and consumer advocacy groups in comments to the agency.  Read More (Publication date 02 Jun 2023) The US state of Minnesota has approved measures to regulate PFAS and heavy metals in a wide  variety of products. The provisions relating to PFAS will be implemented in phases, starting January  1, 2025. On May 24, 2023, the governor of Minnesota signed HF 2310 (Chapter 60, 2023) into law. As an  omnibus environment and natural resources bill, it sets budget appropriations to related agencies  and a wide array of provisions regarding environmental matters. Specific sections of the law  regulate perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) and two heavy metals (lead and  cadmium) in a wide range of products Read More (Publication date 06 May 2023) China National Institutes for Food and Drug Control (NIFDC) started a public feedback process for  the draft Technical Guidelines for Skin Sensitization Test. Consisting of five parts, the draft  introduces the basic test principles and contents, and gives instructions on result analysis and  evaluation. Preliminary Opinion open for comments: Deadline for comments: May 20, 2023 Read More (Publication date 17 May 2023) The objective of developing the Guidelines is to provide guidance to ingredient manufacturers on the correct  use of the Ingredient Safety Information Submission Platform (the Platform) and standardize the submission  of ingredient safety information. The Guidelines consists of 12 Articles, including the basis, purpose,  application scope, submitting entity, submission content, the generation and use of ingredient submission  codes, etc. Preliminary Opinion open for comments: Deadline for comments: May 31, 2023 Read More (Publication date 17 May 2023) Thailand will soon issue an updated list of prohibited cosmetic ingredients that includes 13 kinds of  PFAS and their derivatives. Perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) are synthetic chemicals widely used in  consumer and industrial products. In cosmetic applications, they are sometimes used to condition  and smooth the skin to make it appear shiny and used to improve product spreadability . However,  they do not readily degrade and will accumulate in the environment and in living organisms, posing  potential health risks. Read More (Publication date 24 May 2023) On April 26, 2023, the SkinCeuticals store located in Shanghai Pudong New Area was granted a  cosmetic production license for on -site personalized service by the Shanghai Municipal Medical  Products Administration (MPA). This license allows the enterprise to provide consumers with  personalized services that involve direct contact with cosmetic contents at the store, akin to  bringing the factory to the store and producing custom -made products. As the first license of its  kind in China, it marks a major achievement and a milestone in the development of the  personalized cosmetics industry in both Shanghai and nationwide. Read more (Publication date May 4, 2023) NIFDC released the draft Technical Guidelines for Filling in and Submitting Cosmetic Formula for  public consultation. The draft provides instructions for enterprises seeking to register or notify  special/general cosmetics and outlines the requirements for completing the cosmetic formula  table. Read More (Publication date 09 May 2023) NIFDC initiated a public consultation on the Technical Guidelines for Filling in and Submitting Safety  Information of Cosmetic Ingredients (the Guidelines). Consisting of 11 parts, the Guidelines systematically  outlines the vital points and technical principles for filling in and submitting the ingredient safety  information, covering aspects of ingredient’s basic information, brief descriptions of ingredient’s production  technique, necessary quality control requirements, limitation requirements for risk substances, etc. Read More (Publication date 26 May 2023) Subject to Cosmetic Hygiene and Safety Act, the pre -market registration requirement for specific  purpose cosmetics will be replaced with notification and the establishment of a product  information file (PIF) starting on July 1, 2024. In line with this transition, on May 19, 2023, Taiwan  Food and Drug Administration (TFDA) proposed to revise Particulars of Specific Purpose Cosmetics  That May Be Voluntarily Modified. Once the amendment takes effect, cosmetic enterprises will be  allowed to delete the separately listed specific purpose ingredients from product labels at their  discretion. Read More (Publication date 31 May 2023) In January 2023, ASEAN introduced the latest amendments to the ingredient annexes to ASEAN  Cosmetic Directive (ACD). These amendments were approved in the 36th ASEAN Cosmetic  Scientific Body (ACSB) meeting. The main amendments include: 1.adding 42 prohibited ingredients, and revising the requirements for 1 prohibited ingredient; 2.revising the requirements for 4 restricted ingredients; 3.revising the requirements for 1 permitted colorant; 4.revising the requirements for 3 permitted preservatives; 5.revising the requirements for 1 permitted UV -filter. Read More w w w . c l i n c h o i c e . c o m Global HQ Fort Washington - USA


 
https://clinchoice.com/resources/
https://clinchoice.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/Safety-Assessment-of-E-Cigarettes-in-the-EU-v1.4.pdf
SAFETY ASSESSMENT OF  E-CIGARETTES IN THE EU  Authors:  Pradeep Kumar and Shrutismita Electronic cigarettes (EC) are deﬁned as products that can be used for the  consumption of a nicotine-containing aerosol via a mouthpiece, or any  component of that product, including a cartridge, a tank, and the device without  a cartridge or tank (1). EC and heated tobacco products (HTP) are becoming  popular alternatives to cigarettes in several countries. For example, since their  introduction, HTPs have partially replaced cigarettes in Japan, while the  prevalence of EC has risen in the United States and other countries. EC aerosols  are generated from the heating of liquids, and HTP aerosols are generated from  the heating of tobacco at temperatures far below the combustion temperatures  observed for cigarettes. Consequently, lower concentrations of harmful and  potentially harmful constituents (HPHC) in their aerosols are measured when  compared to mainstream smoke from reference  or commercial cigarettes (2). An  EC is a part of an emerging class of electronic nicotine-delivery systems (ENDS)  that aerosolize nicotine and produce a vapor that emulates that of tobacco  cigarettes but purportedly has fewer traditional harmful substances than  second-hand smoke  (3 ). For the ﬁrst time, EU Directive Article 20 of the Tobacco  Products introduces a comprehensive regulatory framework for ECs with a focus  on safety, quality, consumer protection, and collection of information. EC are  recent products in the EU market, and evidence concerning their potential risks  and beneﬁts is emerging (1). The EU Commission and Member States are monitoring scientiﬁc evidence, user  proﬁles, and market developments regarding all EC, given their increased usage.  Open questions for the use of EC are:  •Adverse health eﬀects (short- and long-term eﬀects) caused due to EC •Role of EC as a gateway to smoking/the initiation of smoking (mainly  •focusing on young people) •Role of EC in harm reduction/cessation of traditional tobacco smoking (1)1. Introduction 2. Background and mechanism EC regulated as medicines may be made available in strengths and volumes  greater than those permitted under the Tobacco and Related Products  Regulations (TRPR) (i.e., containing more than 20 mg/ml nicotine, more than 2 ml  for single use cartridge/disposable products or more than 10 ml for reﬁll  containers) and follows the EU MDR safety regulation 2002. Lesser volumes or  strengths fall under consumer products (4). For assessing the safety, the toxicological consequences of heating and  vaporizing the formulation of nicotine and excipients during the normal use of  the product need to be considered. For example, particular concern has been  raised in studies about the presence of acrolein and other carbonyls, such as  formaldehyde and acetaldehyde, that can be produced as a consequence of the  thermal decomposition of glycerol and propylene glycol. Analytical chemistry  data should be used to conﬁrm the compounds present in the vapor produced by  an e-cigarette device under its normal operating conditions . Information on the  potential toxicity of any degradation products at relevant exposure levels and all  routes of exposure should be provided (4).•First-generation devices: cig-like devices have the most physical resemblance  to traditional cigarettes. They aﬀord the least amount of user control over  heating. Nicotine delivery is not as eﬃcient as compared to newer devices.  •Second-generation models: larger, enable voltage adjustment by users, and  higher-capacity lithium-ion rechargeable batteries.  •Third generation: Removable and rechargeable large batteries (external) with  user control (both voltage and wattage) tanks containing more e-liquid that is  heated at higher temperatures. These models o/f_ten contain sub-ohm  resistance heating coils that aid users in generating relatively large aerosol  volumes.  •Fourth generation: Enable control over the temperature of the heating coil.  •Fi/f_th generation: Use changeable, nicotine salt-based liquid cartridges and  temperature regulation to produce an aerosol as an alternative to traditional  cigarettes (1).Currently, there are ﬁve generations of EC in the EU (1)  3. Safety requirements of EC as per EU Glycerol: The most appropriate study for PoD derivation is the rat experiment.  The main eﬀects consisted of local irritation when rats were exposed to 662  mg/m3, 6 hours/day, 5 days/week for 13 weeks reported squamous metaplasia of  the epithelium lining of the epiglottis. No toxic eﬀects were reported at an  exposure concentration of 165 mg/m3. No systemic eﬀects were reported in this  study or in a study with rats exposed to concentrations of up to 3910 mg/m3, 6  hours/day, 5 days/week for 14 days. Hence, the No Observed Adverse Eﬀect  Level of 165 mg/m3 for a 6-hour exposure was chosen as PoD for glycerol (5).Example for Point of Departure (PoD) selection: Due to the large number of devices and liquids present in the market and also a  large variation in individual exposures due to the variability in concentrations in  the inhaled aerosol, duration of exposure, frequency of exposure events  (electronic cigarette use sessions), and the frequency of inhalation during  sessions of electronic cigarette use are great challenges for the exposure  assessment for users of EC and those exposed to exhaled air from these users. Aerosol characteristics play a major role in exposure assessment, composed of  droplets of e-liquids, which contain mainly propylene glycol, glycerol, nicotine,  water, ﬂavorings (if added), and small amounts of by-products of thermal  decomposition of some of these constituents. Inhaled aerosol is highly  concentrated and contains mainly submicrometric-size particles. Electronic  cigarette aerosol is composed of droplets of e-liquids surrounded by air and a  mixture of aerosols. Based on laboratory simulation, a 10-puﬀ session would  result in inhaling 2.5–72.5 mg e-liquid, with 37–69% of aerosol being < 4 µm in  size (highly respirable). For e-liquid containing 20 mg/mL nicotine, this would be  an intake of 0.08–1.45 mg nicotine/session. Data on total puﬀ volume and  nicotine intake can contribute to the development of a standard protocol for  laboratory testing of electronic cigarette products (1).4. Exposure Assessment The compounds identiﬁed in the aerosols inhaled by users of EC originate from  the liquids used or directly from the electronic cigarette device or indirectly from  chemical reactions . It is noted that, in view of the rapidly changing nature of  electronic devices used, some exposure data may not apply anymore or may only  be valid in speciﬁc EU countries . The relevant compounds for the risk assessment in EC aerosols are mainly the  solvent carriers (glycols and glycerol), nicotine, ﬂavorings, nitrosamines (TSNAs),  by-products of thermal decomposition of some of these constituents, notably  carbonyls, and metals originating from the device (1). 4.1 Primary exposure EC users partially exhale harmful components because electronic cigarettes are  only active when users take a puﬀ and do not produce aerosol when no puﬀ is  being taken. Therefore, they do not emit harmful compounds when no puﬀ is  taken, unlike tobacco cigarettes. Nevertheless, non-users may be exposed to  exhaled air following a puﬀ (1).4.2 Second-hand exposure Most of the ingredients and additives used in traditional cigarettes and other  tobacco products, along with nicotine and its derivates, were  among the most  used ingredients in e-liquids. Some of them are included in the 15 priority  chemical substances list by the scientiﬁc committee on emerging and newly  identiﬁed health risks in its Opinion Tobacco Additives 1, used by the EU  Commission. These include nicotine, solvent carriers (propylene glycol, ethylene  glycol, and glycerol), tobacco-speciﬁc nitrosamines (TSNAs), volatile organic  compounds (VOCs), phenolic compounds, ﬂavorings, and tobacco alkaloids can be  found in the aerosols of EC. In addition, the aerosols also contain pyrolysis  products of the liquids (i.e., aldehydes, free radicals, and reactive oxygen species,  furans) and metals originating from the heated device.5. Hazard Identiﬁcation These above-mentioned ingredients can be toxic, aﬀecting diﬀerent target  organs and with diﬀerent mechanisms involved. Additionally, reactions between  the ingredients can also occur, leading to other chemical formations, such as  aldehydes, among others. (1). No harmonized classiﬁcation was present for most  of the ingredients listed in e-liquids and aerosol components to identify the  hazard, and the toxicological proﬁle has not been thoroughly investigated.  Hence, based on the comparison between measured exposure levels in aerosols  and health-based guidance values, the overall weight of evidence for the risk of  respiratory tract carcinogenicity due to long-term cumulative exposure to  nitrosamines, acetaldehyde, and formaldehyde, is weak to moderate (1). Nicotine is a parasympathomimetic alkaloid that stimulates the heart rate and  blood pressure at low doses and also acts on the gastrointestinal tract and the  central nervous system. The dose route and duration of administration determine  whether there will be a stimulating or an inhibiting eﬀect on blood circulation. At  toxic doses, central stimulation is followed by inhibition, e.g., central inhibition of  respiration. Concerning the intoxication of humans, estimates range from 60 mg  from self-testing up to more recent estimates of 0.5–1 g of ingested nicotine,  corresponding to an oral lethal dose 50  of 6.5–13 mg/kg. According to the  harmonized classiﬁcation and labeling approved by the EU, nicotine is fatal if  swallowed, in contact with skin, if inhaled, and is toxic to aquatic life with  long-lasting eﬀects (1). Toxicological data on some endpoints (i.e., CMR (6),  cardiovascular, respiratory system, among others) and eﬀects on the health of  consumers when inhaled, along with data on any addictive eﬀect, information on  the nicotine doses and uptake when consumed under normal or reasonably  foreseeable conditions are required for the nicotine formulations along with  excipients (7). Results of exposure assessments will be compared against the safety comparator  for each ingredient/impurity/degradant present in the EC aerosol. Risk  assessment was performed based on measured aerosol concentrations (below  table ) and the identiﬁed hazards and human health impacts. In addition, a  comparison is made to the list of compounds recommended to be measured in  the ECs aerosol, according to the tobacco and electronic cigarette industry for  regulatory submission under the TPD and to the list of the European Association  for the Co-ordination of Consumer Representation in Standardisation (1).6. Risk assessment Nicotine exposure may induce eﬀects on the respiratory tract since the alveolar  concentrations calculated are higher than or comparable to eﬀect concentrations  in human volunteer studies, showing coughing and constriction of the airways.  Systemic eﬀects on the cardiovascular system are considered possible since the  absorbed doses are higher than eﬀect levels in human volunteer studies with  nicotine, showing changes in heart-beat and systolic blood pressure. There may  be a risk for adverse eﬀects on the fetus for heavy users since the absorbed  doses calculated were slightly lower than eﬀect concentrations in a study with  monkeys (1). Compound Maximum median aerosol  concentration (µg/l)Table 1: Reported maximum concentrations of compounds in EC aerosols  Nicotine 2000  Propylene glycol 97000  Glycerol 71000  Formaldehyde 470  Acetaldehyde 70 acrolein 50 diacetyl 220 Acetoin nm NNN3 0.0038 NAT3 0.0012  NAB3 0.0001  NNK3 0.0017  Cromium 0.0067  Manganese 0.0083  Cobalt 0.091  Nickel 0.343  Copper 0.133 Zinc 0.0014  Cadmium 1.22 Tin 0.03 Lead nm Arsenic nm nm: not measured; NNN = N’-nitrosonornicotine, NAT = N’-nitrosoanatabine, NAB= N’-nitrosoanabasine, NNK  =4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone The exhaled breath was collected from EC/e-liquid combinations from 17  volunteers during usage, and the levels of contaminants were measured. Subjects  took a speciﬁed number of puﬀs and exhaled onto a trapping device immediately  a/f_ter each puﬀ via a mouthpiece. Samples of control breath without EC were  obtained from each subject at the start of the experiment. Analysis of exhaled  aerosol is summarized in the below table , providing information on second-hand  exposure. The maximum levels will be used in speciﬁc exposure scenarios for the  risk assessment (1).6.1 Second-hand exposure  Compound  range  minmax Median Unit Components  of ECnTable 2: Chemical analysis of exhaled aerosol. The columns with ranges and medians  list average amounts recovered in the ﬁrst exhaled breath a/f_ter inhaling a puﬀ.  Carrier liquid  and nicotine  nicotine 2140 108 ng 17 <LOQ  Propylene glycol 127 <LOQ µg 17 <LOQ  7Glycerol <LOQ <LOQ µg 17 <LOQ  Aldehydes  Formaldehyde <LOQ <LOQ µg 4 <LOQ  Acetaldehyde <LOQ <LOQ µg 4 <LOQ  Acrolein <LOQ <LOQ µg 4 <LOQ  NNN 111 29 pg 9 <LOQ  NAT 40 14 pg 9 <LOQ  NAB 8 2 pg 9 <LOQ  NNK 71 15 pg 9 <LOQ  Metals 2.92 <LOQ ng 3 <LOQ  copper <LOQ <LOQ ng 3 <LOQ  all other metals NDMA equivalent total TSNAs 77 28 pg 9 <LOQ Nitrosamines1  LOQ: limit of quantiﬁcation; n: No.of subjects; NNN = N’-nitrosonornicotine, NAT = N’-nitrosoanatabine, NAB=  N’-nitrosoanabasine, NNK =4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone;ng:nanogram; µg:microgram The dose metric to be used depends on the mode of action of the chemical,   toxicokinetics, and dynamics, which could be the concentration in the aerosol in  diﬀerent regions of the respiratory tract, inhaled dose per time interval, absorbed  dose per time interval, or a cumulative dose over partial or total lifetime (1). Users AssessmentFig 1.Stepwise, pragmatic approach for the risk assessment of individual  components in EC aerosols (5) For local eﬀects on the respiratory tract, the margin of exposure (MoE) was based  on the approximate maximum median alveolar concentration calculated from the  puﬀ dose, the volume/puﬀ (70 ml), a low absorption rate (30%) and the dilution  rate in the lungs. With respect to the latter: the aerosol concentration in the  respiratory tract will be reduced since, together with the  Light user: 15 inhalations per  day, 1 puﬀ per 4 minutes, with a  total daily use duration of sixty  minutesAverage user: 60 inhalations per  day, 1 puﬀ per 2 minutes with a  total daily use duration of 120  minutesHeavy user: 500 inhalations per  day, 2 puﬀs per minute with a  total daily use duration of 240  minutesExposure assessment Margin of exposure (MoE) evaluationHazard assessment (PoD determination) Step 1a. Estimate exposure duration Step 1b. Estimate exposure intensityDetermined number of cigarettes x 6 min  (smoking time per cigarette)Step 1a. Estimate exposure duration Step 4. Calculate exposure dose metric  (dependent on the dose metric for the PoD  I. Respiratory tract tumors: Inhaled dose per  cigarette (DMSS(mg)) II. Systemic eﬀects(incl tumors): Absorbed dose  per cigarette (fabs X DMSS / 70 (mg/kg)) III. Local eﬀects in extrathoracic  and  tracheabronchial  region: Concentration: 0.5 x  max. alveolar concentration (Cmax) (=0.5 X DMSS /  0.650/11(mg/L)) IV. Local eﬀects in alveoli: Concentration: 0.5 X  Cmax(=0.5 X DMSS / 0.650/33(mg/L)) Step 5. Deﬁne exposure for determined  number of cigarettes Exposure intensity(appropriate dose metric)  Exposure duration)Step6: Deﬁne PoD PoD dose metric e.g. Benchmark  concentration  (BMCL or BMDL 10), No  Observed Adverse eﬀect  concentration  (NOAEC ) or Low  Observed Adverse eﬀect  concentration (LOAEC) for  concertation e.g., Benchmark  Dose  (BMDL 10), No Observed Adverse  eﬀect  level (NOAEL ) or Low Observed Adverse eﬀect   level (LOAEL) for dose PoD exposure duration Step 7. Calculate MoE and minimal MoE 7a. MoE: Ratio of PoD and exposure ( Same dose metric) 7b. Minimal MoE: Quantiﬁable factors combined        (e.g., interspecies, intraspecies, LOAEL->NOAEL Step 8. Evaluate MoE Compare and minimal MoE Expert judgement: include remaining factors  (e.g., diﬀerences in exposure characteristics)Step2: Identify most relevant toxicity study Epidemiological study or animal experiment  Study with exposure scenario resembling  smoking scenario Identify critical eﬀect Determine dose metric for critical eﬀect  (e.g. concentration, dose in relation to duration)Step3: Identify appropriate dose metric for PoDDetermine the total amount of a compound  in mainstream smoke (MSS) of one cigarette  (DMSS(mg))7. Conclusionpuﬀ, air will be inhaled. For systemic eﬀects, the MoE was based on the  calculated total absorbed daily dose. On the hazard side, a suitable animal  experiment can be chosen to derive the PoD (1). Risk assessment was proposed based on the MoE approach. The choice of an  appropriate dose metric, such as inhaled concentration and absorbed dose,  depends on the type of eﬀect. Temporal characteristics also should be considered  in the ﬁnal step of the MoE approach (5). The minimal value required for the MoE  to come to a conclusion of no or low concern depends on the hazard information  available and on the exposure characteristics, and thus, will be diﬀerent for  diﬀerent scenarios (1). Natural impurities in nicotine are nicotine-N-oxides, cotinine, nornicotine,  anatabine, myosmine, anabasine, and β-nicotyrine which are not considered as  carcinogens along with nicotine. Other impurities like N-Nitrosonornicotine,  nitrosamine ketone and 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanol are  suspected to cause cancer in humans; this is the area where there is no speciﬁc  process for conducting safety assessments mentioned; based on the levels in  aerosol concentration their safety will be addressed (1) An average reduction in concentrations of more than 90% among given lists of  HPHCs has been observed in the aerosol of commercial HTPs or EC against their  concentrations in commercial cigarette smoke (2). Research performed in a European context and focused on EU policy needs is still  limited and needs to set out requirements for nicotine-containing liquids,  including prohibiting certain additives. 8. References 1 Scientiﬁc Committee on Health, Environmental and Emerging Risks SCHEER Opinion  on electronic cigarettes, 2021 2 Gregory Rodrigo, · Guy Jaccard, · Donatien Taﬁn Djoko, · Alexandra Korneliou, ·  Marco Esposito, Maxim Belushkin; Cancer potencies and margin of exposure used for  comparative risk assessment of heated tobacco products and electronic cigarettes  aerosols with cigarette smoke; GENOTOXICITY AND CARCINOGENICITY, Archives of  Toxicology (2021) 95:283–298. 3 Jürgen Hahn, Yulia B Monakhova, Julia Hengen, Matthias Kohl-Himmelseher, Jörg  Schüssler, Harald Hahn, Thomas Kuballa, and Dirk W Lachenmeier; Electronic  cigarettes: overview of chemical composition and exposure estimation, Tobacco  Induced Diseases (2014) 12:23. 4 Guidance for licensing electronic cigarettes and other inhaled nicotine-containing  products as medicines, 2017 5 Peter M. J. Bos, Lya G. Soeteman-Hernández & Reinskje Talhout; Risk assessment of  components in tobacco smoke and e-cigarette aerosols: a pragmatic choice of dose  metrics, Inhalation Toxicology, International Forum for Respiratory Research, 2021 6 Hazard identiﬁcation and characterization, genotoxicity, 2020 7 The European commission, commission implementing decision (EU) 2015/2183, 2015 ClinChoice is a leading global Contract Research Organization (CRO), with over 4000  clinical research, regulatory, product vigilance, and toxicology professionals across  North America, Asia, and Europe. For more than 28 years, ClinChoice has been  providing high-quality contract research services to pharmaceutical, biotechnology,  medical device, vaccine, and consumer healthcare product clients, encompassing a  broad range of services and therapeutic areas.About ClinChoice Adunoothala Pradeep Kumar, M.Pharm Associate Manager - Toxicology Safety & Medical Aﬀairs Shrutismita, M.tech. Associate Manager - Toxicology Safety & Medical AﬀairsAuthors www.clinchoice.com ClinChoice Inc. 1300 Virginia Drive, Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 USA Phone: +1 215 283 6035 Fax: +1 215 283 6382 Email: info@clinchoice.com  ClinChoice No. 420 Fenglin Road Floor 11 Xuhui District Shanghai 430000, China Email: bd@clinchoice.comClinChoice LLC 3 Barbusse, 0028 Yerevan, Armenia Phone: +374 60 541515 Email: europe@clinchoice.comClinChoice Limited Suite G48 268 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 4DX Berkshire, United Kingdom Phone: +44 1628 566121 Email: europe@clinchoice.com ClinChoice Private Ltd. #729 8th Main 11th Cross, J.P. Towers JP Nagar 3rd Phase Bangalore - 560 076 Karnataka, India Phone: +91 80 2658 5551 Email: info@clinchoice.comClinChoice K.K.  THE GATE NIHONBASHI Bld.  3FHigashi Nihonbashi 3-4-1,  Chuo/uni2010ku  Tokyo 104/uni20100031 Japan  Phone: +81 3 6228 7360  Email: japan@clinchoice.comClinChoice Inc. 17th Floor  Wynsum Corporate Plaza  22 F. Ortigas Jr. Road, Ortigas Center Pasig City, - 1605 The Philippines  Phone: +632 8633 5176 Email: info@clinchoice.com ClinChoice Canada Inc. 2 Robert Speck Pkwy Mississauga, ON L4Z 1H8,  Canada Phone: +1 215 283 6035  Email: info@clinchoice.comCROMSOURCE A                  Company Via Giorgio De Sandre, 3 37135 Verona - Italy Phone: +39 045 485 9279  Email: cromsource@cromsource.com 


 
https://clinchoice.com/resources/
https://clinchoice.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/Safety-assessment-of-E-cigarettes-in-the-US-v1.4.pdf
SAFETY ASSESSMENT OF  E-CIGARETTES IN US Authors:  Pradeep Kumar and Shrutismita In the US, electronic cigarettes (EC) fall in electronic nicotine delivery  systems(ENDS) and usually contain nicotine derived from tobacco, ﬂavorings,  propylene glycol, vegetable glycerin, and other ingredients. These EC are  electrically-driven devices consisting of the battery part and liquid, in an  atomizer, which is aerosolized by applying energy and generating heat to a  resistance encircling a wick. The substances mentioned above aﬀect nicotine  delivery, appeal, and ease of product use, inﬂuencing individual preferences that  may play a role in use patterns. The popularity of EC is due to their ability to deal  both with the physical (i.e., nicotine) and the behavioral component of smoking  addiction. Sensory stimulation and simulation of smoking behavior and cigarette  manipulation are important elements of a product’s eﬀectiveness in reducing or  completely substituting conventional smoking/cigarettes, which are generally  absent in nicotine replacement therapies and oral medications for nicotine  dependence. This justiﬁes why these products can be eﬀective in lowering the  consumption of tobacco smoking and are eﬃcient as long-term replacements for  a conventional cigarette or cigar (1) Currently, there are three generations of EC in the US market (2). First-generation devices: Regular cigarettes and  consisting of small lithium  batteries and cartridges (preﬁlled with a liquid that bathes the atomizer) with  disposable or rechargeable batteries. Second-generation devices: Higher-capacity lithium batteries and atomizers  with the ability to reﬁll them with liquid with atomizers with change in the head . Third-generation devices (Mods): Large-capacity lithium batteries with  integrated circuits that allow vapers to change the voltage or power (wattage)  delivered to the atomizer. These devices can be combined with either  second-generation atomizers or with rebuildable atomizers with consumers’  ability to prepare their own setup of resistance and wick (2).1. Introduction 2. Background and mechanismEC safety assessment can be evaluated in three steps in US: Chemical studies evaluate the chemical composition of liquids and aerosols.  These studies analyze environmental exposure (passive ‘vaping’). Exposure to  toxic chemicals from EC is far lower than tobacco cigarettes reported in several  studies. Besides comparing the levels of speciﬁc chemicals released from tobacco  and EC, it should be taken into consideration that the vast majority of the >4000  chemicals present in tobacco smoke are completely absent from EC (1). 3.1. Chemical Studies   Toxicological evaluation of each of the ingredients of EC (e.g., nicotine, glycerol,  propylene glycol, ﬂavors, metals) and the mixture of the ingredients in the  e-liquid and aerosol produced from the ENDS should be evaluated. Information  concerning substances that may be solvent extractable from the container  closure system or leachable into the e-liquid when the e-liquid is in contact with  the container closure system should be evaluated (2). Toxicological endpoints such  as cytotoxicity, genotoxicity, carcinogenicity, and respiratory, cardiac,  reproductive, and developmental toxicity need to be taken into consideration (2)   Based on the toxicological studies conducted so far, results have shown  signiﬁcantly lower adverse eﬀects of EC vapor compared with cigarette smoke.  However, no comparison with tobacco smoke was performed in any of these  studies, and they cannot be considered relevant to EC use since the samples were  not tested in the form consumed by vapors. More research is needed on EC,  including studies on diﬀerent cell lines, such as lung epithelial cells. In addition,  evaluating a huge number of liquids with diﬀerent ﬂavors is probably necessary  since a minority of them appear to raise some concerns when tested in the  aerosol form produced by using an EC device (1).3.2.Toxicological Studies 3.1   Chemical Studies   3.2   Toxicological Studies  3.3   Clinical studies 3. Safety & Risk assessment of EC in US Clinical studies are very informative in evaluating in vivo eﬀects on humans,  which also helps monitor hundreds of users for many years to adequately explore  the products' safety proﬁle under investigation. Therefore, instead of conducting  clinical studies that span months or years to evaluate potential clinical impact,  information on possible long-term health impact by including existing longer  duration studies in the public literature  with the appropriate bridging  information and extrapolating from short-term studies can be provided for  clinical assessments (1).3.3.Clinical studies   Literature searches and monitoring are primarily intended to identify single case  reports of adverse eﬀects and to track any changes in beneﬁt-risk proﬁles  associated with the chemicals, particularly when new safety concerns arise.  Literature monitoring includes published articles, articles, and reviews in indexed  or non-indexed journals, any content posted anywhere online, posters and  conference abstracts, etc .  Best Practices for literature monitoring techniques includes : A drug safety expert with experience researching literature is needed. Conduct risk assessments to ensure that the search criteria are robust and  relevant to the objective of the literature search. Conduct literature searches and evaluate the results for literature per regional  requirements (Global and Local). Literature search and review is therefore a critical activity that we in Clinchoice  undertake for the safety proﬁling of drugs.4. Literature monitoringBased on the existing evidence, EC use is by far a less harmful alternative to  smoking. There is no tobacco and no combustion involved in EC use; therefore,  regular vapor may not contain several harmful toxic chemicals that are typically  present in the smoke of tobacco cigarettes. Indeed, some toxic chemicals are  released in the EC vapor as well, but their levels are substantially lower compared  with tobacco smoke. EC are a revolutionary product in tobacco harm reduction.  Although they emit vapor, which resembles smoke, there is literally no ﬁre  (combustion) and no ‘ﬁre’ (suspicion or evidence that they may be the cause for  disease in a similar way to tobacco cigarettes). Due to their unique  characteristics, EC represent a historical opportunity to save millions of lives and  signiﬁcantly reduce the burden of smoking-related diseases worldwide (2).5. Conclusion1 Konstantinos E. Farsalinos and Riccardo Polosa; Safety evaluation and risk  assessment of electronic cigarettes as tobacco cigarette substitutes: a  systematic review, Ther Adv Drug Safety, 2014, Vol. 5(2) 67–86. 2 Premarket Tobacco Product Applications for Electronic Nicotine Delivery  Systems, Guidance for Industry, 20196. ReferencesClinChoice is a leading global Contract Research Organization (CRO), with over 4000  clinical research, regulatory, product vigilance, and toxicology professionals across  North America, Asia, and Europe. For more than 28 years, ClinChoice has been  providing high-quality contract research services to pharmaceutical, biotechnology,  medical device, vaccine, and consumer healthcare product clients, encompassing a  broad range of services and therapeutic areas.About ClinChoice Adunoothala Pradeep Kumar, M.Pharm Associate Manager - Toxicology Safety & Medical Aﬀairs Shrutismita, M.tech. Associate Manager - Toxicology Safety & Medical AﬀairsAuthors www.clinchoice.com ClinChoice Inc. 1300 Virginia Drive, Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 USA Phone: +1 215 283 6035 Fax: +1 215 283 6382 Email: info@clinchoice.com  ClinChoice No. 420 Fenglin Road Floor 11 Xuhui District Shanghai 430000, China Email: bd@clinchoice.comClinChoice LLC 3 Barbusse, 0028 Yerevan, Armenia Phone: +374 60 541515 Email: europe@clinchoice.comClinChoice Limited Suite G48 268 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 4DX Berkshire, United Kingdom Phone: +44 1628 566121 Email: europe@clinchoice.com ClinChoice Private Ltd. #729 8th Main 11th Cross, J.P. Towers JP Nagar 3rd Phase Bangalore - 560 076 Karnataka, India Phone: +91 80 2658 5551 Email: info@clinchoice.comClinChoice K.K.  THE GATE NIHONBASHI Bld.  3FHigashi Nihonbashi 3-4-1,  Chuo/uni2010ku  Tokyo 104/uni20100031 Japan  Phone: +81 3 6228 7360  Email: japan@clinchoice.comClinChoice Inc. 17th Floor  Wynsum Corporate Plaza  22 F. Ortigas Jr. Road, Ortigas Center Pasig City, - 1605 The Philippines  Phone: +632 8633 5176 Email: info@clinchoice.com ClinChoice Canada Inc. 2 Robert Speck Pkwy Mississauga, ON L4Z 1H8,  Canada Phone: +1 215 283 6035  Email: info@clinchoice.comCROMSOURCE A                  Company Via Giorgio De Sandre, 3 37135 Verona - Italy Phone: +39 045 485 9279  Email: cromsource@cromsource.com 


 
https://clinchoice.com/resources/
https://clinchoice.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/Combination-Products-ebook-v1.7.pdf
eBook CONSIDERATIONS FOR  COMBINATION PRODUCT  REGISTRATIONS IN THE U.S. AND  THE EU Sarita Ranjan, Ph.D, MBA, Senior Manager, Technical Writing Pravalika Bangunde, M.Sc. , Specialist, Technical WriterAuthors Lakshmipriya Kumar, Doctor of Pharmacy, Director, Medical Devices, Medical Aﬀairs Alma Relja, RAC, CQIA. Director, Regulatory Aﬀairs Joy Coraza, M.S, Associate Director, Regulatory Aﬀairs Azher Sharif, PharmD, Medical WriterContributors Table of Contents Disclaimer The information presented in this paper is based on our current understanding of  the US and EU regulatory requirements for Combination Products at the time of  publishing and is subject to change in the continuously evolving regulatory  landscape. Examples provided in this paper are intended for clariﬁcation purposes  only and may be classiﬁed diﬀerently depending on their respective design,  features, and functionality. Background................................................................................................................................... Current status of the regulatory requirements.................................................................. Regulatory pathway in the US................................................................................................. Regulatory pathway in the EU................................................................................................. Safety reporting requirements for marketed products.................................................... Current challenges..................................................................................................................... Marketing authorization challenges in the US.................................................................. Marketing authorization challenges in the EU.................................................................. What is not a Combination Product?.................................................................................... Conclusion.................................................................................................................................... Preparing for Combination Product registrations.............................................................4 5 8 9 10 14 14 15 17 17 18FDA Categories for Combination Products Combination Products are medical products comprised of two or more diﬀerently  regulated constituent parts. They have many types of usage. For instance, some  drug-device combinations, such as metered-dose inhalers, are used to ensure the  proper dosage of self-administrated medicines outside the clinical environment. The  constituent parts of the Combination Products can be combined in diﬀerent ways. The  intended use of the ﬁnal combination product leads to varying categorizations in  diﬀerent regulatory regions (Table 1). Table 1: Deﬁnition and Categories of Combination Products in the US and the EU  jurisdictions Terminology US FDAiiEUi Brief summary of  deﬁnitionsAccording to Section 503(g)  of the FD&C Act and 21 CFR  3.2 (e), a Combination  product is a product that is  composed of any  combination of a drug and a  device; a biological product  and a device; a drug and a  biological product; or a  drug, device, and a  biological product.  Biological products may  include human cells, tissues,  and cellular-tissue-based  products (HCT/P).According to EU MDR  2017/745, Combination  Products combine a  medicinal product or  substance and a medical  device.Figure 1: Possible Constituent Parts of Combination Products Drug,Device  and Biologic Combination  Products(FDA)Drug and  DeviceDevice and  Biologic Drug and  Biologic 1Categories Integral, Co-packed, and  Referenced  MDR Article 1 (8)(9)(10)Terminology US FDAiiEUi Single-entity, Co-packaged,  and Cross-labelled  21 CFR 3.2(e)(1)(2)(3)(4) Single Entity vs. Integral Co-PackagedDevices that, when placed  on the market,  incorporate, as an integral  part, a substance that, if  used separately, would be  considered a medicinal  product. Example: drug-eluting  stent.  Also, devices intended to  administer a medicinal  product, where the device and the medicinal  product are placed on the  market in such a way that  they form a single integral  product intended  exclusively for use in the  given combination and  which is not reusable.  Examples: Single-use  pre-ﬁlled injectors,  drug-releasing  intra-uterine devices, and  dry-powder inhalers which  cannot be reﬁlled. If a medicinal product and a  medical device are packed  together into a single pack,  it is called Co-Packaged. Example: Spoons/syringes  packaged with medicine A Combination Product has  two or more regulated  components that are  physically, chemically, or  otherwise combined or  mixed and produced as a  single entity.  Examples: A drug-eluting  stent, a catheter with  anti-microbial coating, a  monoclonal antibody  combined with a drug, a  condom with spermicide,  and a pre-ﬁlled insulin  injector pen. Co-Packaged Combination  Products are two or more  separate products (drug/  device, device/biologic, or  drug/biologic) packaged  together in a single package  or as a unit. 2Cross-labeled vs.  ReferencedMedicinal products, where  the product information  refers to a speciﬁc medical  device to be used with the  medicinal product, and the  medical device is obtained  separately by the user of  the medicinal product, it is  called as referenced. Example:  Reﬁllable/reusable injector  referenced to be used with  insulin.A drug, device, or biological  product packaged  separately that, according  to its investigational plan or  proposed labeling, is  intended for use only with  an approved individually  speciﬁed drug, device, or  biological product where  both are required to achieve  the intended use,  indication, or eﬀect and  where, upon approval of the  proposed product, the  labeling of the approved  product would need to be  changed.  Example: To reﬂect a  change in intended use,  dosage form, strength,  route of administration, or  signiﬁcant change in dose. Also, any investigational  drug, device, or biological  product packaged  separately that according to  its proposed labeling is for  use only with another  individually speciﬁed  investigational drug, device,  or biological product where  both are required to achieve  the intended use,  indication, or eﬀect. Example: Photosensitizing  drug and activating light  source/laser.for the administration of  that medicine.Example: Drug or vaccine  vial packaged with a  delivery device, ﬁrst-aid kits  containing drugs (antibiotic  ointments, pain relievers,  etc.), and devices  (bandages, gauge, etc.)Terminology US FDAiiEUi 3BackgroundAs shown in Table 1, the description of Combination Products is not as elaborate in the  EU regulation as in the US regulation. EU regulation has recently started considering  Combination Products as a separate group a/f_ter the release of MDR 2017/745. That, too,  EU MDR mentions only Drug Device Combination Products (DDCs).  The broad categorization of Combination Products remains the same across the  jurisdictions. However, the deﬁnitions and terminologies used in diﬀerent regulatory  regions can vary. Combining a drug/biologic with a medical device has been shown to  increase the eﬃciency and safety of the producti resulting in increased innovation and  product registration. Per the EMA's annual report in 2019iii,  25% of the approved  medicines included a device component. However, there are legal, regulatory, and  scientiﬁc concerns related to combining diﬀerent medical products and technologies.  These products require greater coordination and communication among stakeholders.  Hence, regulations across the globe are also evolving continuously in response to the  rapid growth in this ﬁeld. These regulations can become complex as they diﬀer  signiﬁcantly across jurisdictions. The article focuses on Combination Products with a medical device as a constituent part  and presents an overview of the current regulatory pathways for marketing approval in  two diﬀerent regulatory regions: The US and the EU. The article also discusses the  post-marketing regulatory requirements and the current challenges that the  manufacturers of this group of products may face in the changing regulatory landscape. The regulation in the EU, especially for Combination Products, is still in a nascent stage.  However, in the US, the concept of these products was introduced almost half a century  ago. The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) developed regulations for  Combination Products in the 1970siv.  These Combination Products included  radio-biologics and in-vitro diagnostics. In 1990, the Safe Medical Devices Act (SMDA)  was adopted, which designated the primary jurisdiction of the FDA for regulating  Combination Products. The 21 CFR Part 3 was also introduced around the same time (in  1991). Eventually, SMDA fell under the FDA Modernization Act (FDAMA), which was  enacted in 1997. However, some industry-perceived shortcomings in the FDAMA had  the potential for disputes or disagreementsv  related to Combination Products.  4Current status of the regulatory requirementsHence, the Oﬃce of Combination Products (OCP) was establishediv in 2002 as required  by Section 204 of the Medical Device User Fee and Modernization Act of 2002  (MDUFMA) to address the unique challenges related to Combination Products. A/f_ter  two years of the birth of the OCP, the dra/f_t Current Good Manufacturing Practices  (cGMP) for Combination Products was made available (in 2004) to guide the industry  and FDA staﬀ in achieving compliance with the applicable cGMPs for the biological  product, device, or drug constituents of Combination Products as well as for the  ﬁnished Combination Product. The dra/f_t cGMP was ﬁnalized in 2013 (codiﬁed in 21 CFR  Part 4) a/f_ter taking inputs and suggestions from stakeholders and experts. Section 3038  of the 21st Century Cures Act, enacted in December 2016, substantially amended  section 503(g) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FD&C Act) (21 USC 353(g)),  the principal section of the FD&C Act addressing Combination Products.iv Though the regulation of Combination Products is comparatively new in the EU, the  regulatory approach adopted is based on a more detailed classiﬁcation of Combination  Products compared to the US. Article 117 of the EU MDR 2017/745 has amended  Directive 2001/83/EC governing medicinal products for human use and has introduced  additional requirements for Combination Products. Table 2: Comparison of the US and the EU approval processes for combination products Assessment of  Combination ProductsApplication for a  combination product is ﬁled  to EMA with either a  Declaration of Conformity  (OR) Certiﬁcate of  Conformity (OR) Notiﬁed  body Opinion that the  device part complies with  the relevant general safety  and performance  requirements of MDR. Based  on the PMOA, the risk class  of the product is assessed.  Notiﬁed body involvement is  required for assessing Application for a  Combination Product is ﬁled  to an appropriate lead  center which the OCP  assigns for every  Combination Product. The  lead center could be any  one of the three divisions of  the FDA (CDER, CBER, and  CDRH) based on which  constituent part provides  the primary mode of action  (PMOA) of the Combination  Product. Approval Process US EU 5Assessment of  Combination Productsthe device part, except for  Class I devices  (non-measuring,  non-reusable, non-sterile).   Marketing Approval Each constituent part of a  DDC goes through the  approval process as  applicable.Irrespective of PMOA, each  constituent part is assessed.Approval Process US EU Regulatory Requirements  for investigational  applicationSuppose the action of the  medicinal product  (including a product  derived from human blood  or human plasma) is  ancillary to that of the  device. In that case, the  PMOA is attributable to  the device, and the  Combination Product is  assessed as a Class III  device. If the action of the  medicinal product is  principal, the integral  Combination Product is  governed by Directive  2001/83/EC or Regulation  (EC) No 726/2004. The  device part goes through  conformity assessment as  per MDR 2017/745.If PMOA is attributable to  the drug/biologic, an  Investigational new drug  application (IND) is  submitted. If PMOA is attributable to  the device, Investigational  device exemption (IDE) is  submitted.• •  • •  6Requirement for  submission of regulatory  applications for marketing  approvalInformation on the safety  and eﬀectiveness of each  component of the  Combination Product. If PMOA is attributable to  the drug,  If PMOA is attributable to  the device, then the  assessment is as per  MDR 2017/745.Marketing Authorization  Application (MAA) for  the drug constituent  with structured  information on the  device constituent in  eCTD format: This should  cover all aspects related  to the safety and  performance of the  product. This includes  the manufacturing  process, applicable  controls, and usability  data Depending on the risk  class of the medical  device constituent, a  Declaration of  Conformity by the  manufacturer or a  relevant certiﬁcate by a  notiﬁed body or notiﬁed  body opinion is required.If PMOA is attributable to  the drug, submission to  CDER o New drug application     (NDA) or  o Abbreviated new drug     application (ANDA)  If PMOA is attributable to  biologic, submission to  CBER o Biologic license     application (BLA) If PMOA is attributable to  a device, submission to  CDRH o Premarket Approval     (PMA) application o  De Novo designation o  Pre-market notiﬁcation      (510 (k))Approval Process US EU Information Center EMA develops guidance  documents to guide  applicants in providing  consistent and complete  information in a submission.OCP develops  guidance/regulations for the  applicants.• •  •  o o • •  •  7Regulatory pathway in the USThe regulatory pathway to marketing authorization of a Combination Product is more  diﬃcult in the EU compared to the US, as a single marketing approval application is  usually suﬃcient for a Combination Product in the US. The OCP works as a facilitator or a primary focal point for the FDA agencies, consumers,  and the industry in the US. The OCP usually assigns one lead center (CDRH, CDER, or  CBER) based on the PMOA of the Combination Product rather than multiple centers to  help avoid unnecessary duplications and streamline the review and reporting process.  As per 21 CFR Part 3, PMOA is the single mode of action of the Combination Product  that provides its most important therapeutic actionvi. So, in the US, if the PMOA of a OCP Centers for Combination Product Review and ReportingGuidance Documents for  ApplicantsPublicly available guidance  documents can be  downloaded from  https://www.ema.europa.e u/en/documents/scientiﬁc -guideline/guideline-qualit y-documentation-medicin al-products-when-used-m edical-device-ﬁrst-version _en.pdf. and Guidance - MDCG  endorsed documents and  other guidance (europa.eu)All guidance documents for  Combination Products are  publicly available on FDA's  website and can be  downloaded from  https://www.fda.gov/combi nation-products/guidance- regulatory-information/co mbination-products-guidan ce-documentsApproval Process US EU OCP CDRH: Center for Devices  & Radiological Health •510( k) •PMA •IDE •Denovo Classiﬁca�on CDER: Center for Drug  Evalua�on & Research •NDA •ANDA •IND CBER: Center for  Biologics Evalua�on &  Research •BLA 351a 351k- - IND 8Figure 2: Lead Centers of Oﬃce of Combination Productsdrug/device Combination Product is attributable to the device, the lead center  responsible for pre-market review would be the Center for Device and Radiological  Health (CDRH). If the review of a Combination Product needs the involvement of more  than one FDA center, the OCP uses an algorithm for center assignment. This is based  on the expertise of a center in evaluating the safety and eﬀectiveness of a similar type  of Combination Product. In the EU, each constituent part of the DDC (integral with the medicinal product as  PMOA or co-packaged or referenced) must go through the approval process. However, if  the medicinal product has ancillary action, the Combination Product will be assessed  and authorized as per MDR 2017/745. The level of regulatory scrutiny will depend on the  risk associated with the product, which will depend on the product's intended purpose.  In addition, the assessment of these products also considers the quality aspects of a The OCP does not review the marketing applications, but it can be requested to be part  of the regulatory meetings with the reviewersvii.  It also plays an important part in  resolving disputes related to the timeliness of pre-market review and pre-market  review decisions on a Combination Product.vii  In addition, OCP ensures patients' safety  by setting guidelines and providing training (to industry and FDA staﬀ) on the  consistency and appropriateness of post-market activities required for such  products.viii  One can reach the OCP through the mail, email, or faxvii to submit a request  for designation (RFD), as per the deﬁned process in 21 CFR Part 3, to obtain a binding  classiﬁcation or lead center assignmentix. A lead center is assigned within 60 days of  RFD ﬁling. In 2011, FDA released a guidance document for the industry regarding the  type of information the manufacturers should submit to help OCP determine the  regulatory identity or classiﬁcation of a product and, if applicable, assign the  appropriate lead agency for review and regulation. The RFD should be submitted  before ﬁling any investigational or marketing applications to the FDA.  Alternatively, a manufacturer may submit a pre-RFD to obtain preliminary, informal,  and non-binding feedback on the classiﬁcation and to address jurisdictional issues.   The sponsors are free to propose the classiﬁcation and assignment they believe should  apply to their product for a pre-RFD and are required to do so for an RFD. However, the  OCP makes the ﬁnal decision with input from the relevant divisions of the FDA.  However, submitting RFD/pre-RFD is not mandatory if the manufacturer is clear about  the classiﬁcation of the product.   Regulatory pathway in the EU 9device and the use of the device with the medicinal product, including the impact of  the device on the medicinal product. For example, if a medical device is intended to  administer a speciﬁc medicine, it must be ensured that the device component doesn't  adversely impact the characteristics of the medicine. Under the general rule, an  application for marketing approval for an integral Combination Product must contain  suﬃcient evidence demonstrating that the medical device constituent of the product  complies with the relevant general safety and performance requirements (GSPRs) of  MDR 2017/745. Notiﬁed body involvement may or may not be required depending on  the class of the medical device. Moreover, for a non-integral Combination Product, the  device constituent must carry a CE mark. The information contained in the submission  concerning the manufacturing process, applicable controls, and usability should be  suﬃcient for the regulating authority to assess the safety and performance-related  factors. For instance, the applicant should provide detailed information about the  platform used and justiﬁcation for its users based on the product's intended purpose.i  In the EU, the devices are also required to indicate clearly on the label that they  incorporate medicinal substances, human blood, or plasma derivatives. As there are no  harmonized ISO standards for the Combination Product-related symbols, the European  trade association has released a guide of symbols to comply with this requirement.xiii   The EU legal framework for Combination Products is based majorly on Directive  2001/83/EC (for medicinal products for human use), Regulation 726/2004/EC (for  authorization and supervision of medicinal products for human and vet use), and  Regulation 2017/745 (for medical devices) which amends Directive 2001/83/EC. In  summary, the approach for Combination Products adopted in the EU is based on a  slightly more detailed classiﬁcation of such products than the FDA approach.i  For the post-marketing regulatory requirements, the EU has yet to come up with  clariﬁcations on the speciﬁc post-marketing regulations for Combination Products,  while FDA has ﬁnalized a rule which was prepared in consultation with various  stakeholders. The main objective of the rule was to provide consistency in the Post  Market Surveillance Report (PMSR) requirements and to avoid unnecessary duplicate  reporting. At the same time, the promotion and protection of public health remained  the primary focus.xiv Safety reporting requirements for marketed products 10The following are the highlights of the PMSR rule:  Standard deﬁnitions such as Combination Product applicant, constituent part  applicant, device application, biological product deviation report (BPDR),  correction and removal report, product development protocol (PDP), etc., have  been given by the FDA for a better understanding of the relevant terms for all such  submission types. The rule clariﬁes the diﬀerence between Application Type - Based Reporting  Requirements and Constituent Part-Based Reporting Requirements This rule also clariﬁes which PMSR requirements apply for which of the  constituents of Combination Products. In addition, it clariﬁes that duplicate  reporting for the same event is not required. The rule considers that a substantial number of small entities are involved in a  Combination Product lifecycle and commits that compliance with the rule would  not have a signiﬁcant economic impact on the small entities.  If two entities A and B are jointly manufacturing a Combination Product, then both  A and B will be subjected to provisions of this rule; however, there are provisions to  avoid duplicate reporting. For instance, the constituent part applicants need to  share the information on death or serious injury within the reporting period  speciﬁed for that type of event. One of them can submit the combined report to  the FDA.  In addition to application type-based reporting requirements, the Combination  Product applicant is required to submit reports to the FDA following timelines  associated with the report type. If a Combination Product Applicant markets the  constituent parts of the Combination Product under separate applications, the  Combination Product Applicant must comply with the PMSR requirements  associated with each application type. xvi • • • • • • 11Field alert  report (FAR)Required only  when the drug is  one of the  constituents.Within 3  working days Fi/f_teen-day  report and *Follow-up  reportRequired  irrespective of  the type of  constituents15 calendar days  if PMOA is  biologic or drug,  30 calendar  days if PMOA is  a deviceRequired for  serious and  unexpected  events Biological  product  deviation  reporting  (BPDR)Required only  when biologic is  one of the  constituentsWithin 45  calendar daysRequired for a  deviation from a  cGMP, applicable  regulations, applicable  standards,  established  speciﬁcations, orRequired for any  incident that  causes the  product or its  labeling to be  mistaken for, or  applied to  another  product, or any  incident  concerning any  bacteriological  contamination,  or any  signiﬁcant chemical,  physical, or  other change or  deterioration in  the distributed  product or failure to  meet  speciﬁcationsAt least 10 years  as per the  requirements  for medicinal  products or at  least 2 years  beyond the  expected life of  the device  (whichever is  longer).  Example: If a device  constituent has  an expected life  of 10 years, the  requirement for  record keeping  will be 12 years.Report Type Speciﬁc  requirementTimeline for  ReportingTypes of  reportable  eventsRecord-keeping  requirements 12-Five-Day  report and  *follow-up  reportRequired only  when the device  is one of the  constituentsNo later than 5  working days. Required for a  reportable event  that necessitates  remedial action  to prevent an  unreasonable risk  of substantial  harm to public  health or on the  DA's request. -Malfunction  report and  *follow-up  report -Correction or  removal reportsWithin 30  calendar days. Within 10  working days of  initiating a  correction or  removal. Required for a  product, or a  similar product  marketed by the  applicant,  malfunction that  would be likely to  cause or  contribute to a  death or serious  injury if the  malfunction were  to recur. Required to  reduce the risk to  health posed by  the product or  remedy a  violation of the  FD&C Act caused  by the product  which may  present a health risk.an unforeseeable  or unexpected  event that may  aﬀect the purity,  safety, or potency  of the biologic  constituentReport Type Speciﬁc  requirementTimeline for  ReportingTypes of  reportable  eventsRecord-keeping  requirements 13An applicant for a Combination Product needs to know how the product will be reviewed  and approved for sale and the mandatory post-market regulatory requirements. Drug  manufacturers may feel challenged in complying with regulatory requirements related  to the device constituent.* Follow Up" reports for Fi/f_teen-day, Five-day, and Malfunction reports are required when the  Combination Product Applicants become aware of reportable new information related to the event that  was not available at the time of the initial report. Note: Some of the reporting requirements mentioned in the table may not apply if the event occurs  outside the US. For foreign events, applicants should contact the Lead Center or OCP as needed. Current challenges It may not be possible to determine PMOA for some Combination Products as the two  constituents may have independent modes of action. Currently, OCP coordinates with  two diﬀerent lead centers in such cases. However, this may cause confusion regarding  the regulatory requirements for the speciﬁc Combination Product. When more than one  center is involved in the review process, the eﬀectiveness of cooperation among the  involved parties plays a critical role in determining the eﬀectiveness of the review. In  such cases, guidance from regulatory authorities/experts may be solicited for the type  of marketing application requirement. Currently, separate marketing applications for  individual constituents of a Combination Product are also permissible as per the FD&C  Act, 503(g)(6). For investigational Combination Products, typically, an Investigational New Drug (IND)  application is submitted if the Combination Product has a drug or biologic PMOA, and an  Investigational Device Exemption (IDE) is submitted if the Combination Product has a  device PMOA. However, if both the combination's constituents (drug/biologic and  device) are on the market individually and the RFD has been submitted for the  Combination Product, will IND or IDE still be required? An applicant may discuss such  issues with the regulatory authority (OCP in the US) to get assistance in understanding  the regulatory nature of the Combination Product to determine the right pathway for  marketing authorization.Marketing authorization challenges in the US 14In the EU, all the constituents of the DDC product need to go through the approval  process as per MDR 2017/745. Hence, a Combination Product needs to undergo two  types of assessments: One independent assessment of the medical device as well as the  drug and the other to assess the device's impact on the drug's safety and eﬃcacy. In  addition, no medical device can be grandfathered in the EU. Even if the Combination  Product is on the market for a long time, the economic operators must ensure that it  conforms to the current regulation. It indicates that any change in the packaging of  medical products may lead to new regulatory requirements. For instance, if the  packaging of a drug is changed in a way that it is marketed as a single entity with a  dispenser, then the product may fall under the Combination Product category. Also,  where a device part is replaced, or a new device is added, a new EU declaration of  conformity/EU certiﬁcate may be required as part of a variation or extension  application.  Article 117 of MDR 2017/745 adds a new requirement of the notiﬁed body opinion for the  device part of an Integral drug-device Combination Product. The new requirement will  apply according to the product's risk classiﬁcation. An EU certiﬁcate issued by Notiﬁed  Body for a device part must be provided in MAA. A manufacturer should seek a notiﬁed  body opinion if the EU certiﬁcate is unavailable. Then a notiﬁed body opinion report will  be issued, and it must be submitted during MAA. For Class I (non-sterile,  non-measuring, and non-reusable) devices, the applicant should provide a Declaration  of Conformity while submitting the MAA  (NB opinion is not required).Marketing authorization challenges in the EU Risk classiﬁcation Requirement According to Article 117 15Figure 3: EU MDR Requirement: Article 117 Ar�cle 117 CE marked device A manufacturer should demonstrate the  Declara�on of Conformity (OR) an EU  cer�ﬁcate should be issued by a no�ﬁed  body Non CEmarked Device A manufacturer should seek No�ﬁed  body opinion on the Conformity of the  cons�tuent part of the device which is in  compliance withGSPRAs per Rule 14 of the MDR, incorporating a medicinal substance (including human blood  or plasma derivative) into a device, where the action of the medicinal substance is  ancillary to the device, puts it at the highest risk. Hence, all such medical devices are  considered Class III medical devices, irrespective of their invasiveness or duration of use.  These Combination Products must fulﬁll more comprehensive conformity assessment  requirements for marketing authorizations.  Suppose the Combination Product is categorized as Class III under Rule 14 and the device  part is implantable, or the device part is Class IIb; in this case, it needs to undergo extra  scrutiny of the clinical evaluation consultation procedure by the independent expert  panel. In addition, all the devices incorporating a medicinal product need to seek a  scientiﬁc opinion from the medicinal product authority. No justiﬁcation can replace the  scientiﬁc opinion as per MDR 2017/745. The possible implication could be that despite  complying with all stringent conformity assessment requirements for devices, the  Combination Product may not get a certiﬁcate from the notiﬁed body if the scientiﬁc  opinion is unfavorable. Suppose the PMOA is a drug for a drug-device combination, and the device constituent  falls under high-risk device due to its invasiveness or implantable nature; in this case, the  product will take the marketing route as a drug complying with the Medicinal Product  Directive (MPD). Still, the device part must also comply with appropriate conformity  assessments required for a high-risk device. In this evolving phase, when regulations for devices have become stricter, and the  number of notiﬁed bodies has not increased proportionately, there is a signiﬁcant amount  of confusion related to the Combination Products. Getting a Combination Product on the  market has become prolonged and more burdensome. The notiﬁed bodies are under  tremendous time pressure for quality review. As drug manufacturers are also supposed to  go through the device approval process for their Combination Products, the burden on  the already burdened notiﬁed bodies will increase multifold. EMA released Guidelines on  Combination Products (refer to Table 2) to help the applicants.   The applicant may contact the authorities responsible for medical devices to get  additional clariﬁcations on the product's regulatory status because general principles  may not apply to all the products. The Combination Products are complex; hence,  safety and eﬀectiveness need to be assessed on a case-to-case basis. The  manufacturers should engage in early dialogue with the concerned regulators. It is important to understand what cannot be included as a Combination Product to  avoid further confusion regarding the categorization and classiﬁcation of products. 16Certain medical products are used in combination with each other. Hence, they may be  mistaken for combination products. For example, syringes are primarily used to deliver a  drug. However, unless it is speciﬁed on the label that the syringe can be used only with a  speciﬁc drug, the syringe and the drug are not considered a Combination Product. Suppose a medical product is used with a non-medical product; it doesn’t fall under the  Combination Product category - for example, a drug with a food supplement or a device  with cosmetics. Moreover, suppose the same medical products (drug/drug or  device/device) are used together; they do not fall under the Combination Product  category, such as ﬁxed-dose drug combinations. In addition, each regulatory jurisdiction has its deﬁnition of a Combination Product. For  example, a drug and biologic combination is not considered a Combination Product in  the EU region.What is not a combination product? Combination Products’ regulations have been introduced to overcome the challenges in  inventing, developing, manufacturing, and approval processes. Because of the increased  safety and convenient use of Combination Products, the demand for such products is  increasing. However, the Combination Products are complex and may deploy new  methods and innovative technologies. The regulatory assessment of such products aims  to ensure users' safety while supporting innovation. As the number of diﬀerent types of  Combination Products is increasing, the regulation for such products is also evolving. Moreover, diﬀerent countries have diﬀerent regulations and deﬁnitions that add to the  already existing challenges for the manufacturers. Hence, Combination Product  manufacturers must understand and comply with the relevant regulatory requirements  and remain vigilant about regulatory changes that could impact their product. A good  understanding of the safety and eﬃcacy proﬁle of a Combination Product, as well as  relevant regulations, will lead to the successful marketing of the product and technical  success for patient treatment.Conclusion 17A multidisciplinary team with varied and extensive knowledge regarding regulations and  nuances in diﬀerent markets is a necessity for a successful application. Regulatory  strategists with experience making submissions FDA and EMEA, must work  collaboratively with skilled and knowledgeable medical writers, toxicologists, and  clinical teams to submit high-quality submissions to health authorities. A robust quality  management system is necessary to ensure all checkpoints are reviewed for consistency  and accuracy within the time permitted by the regulatory calendar.Preparing for Combination Product Registrations 18References: i.Guideline on quality documentation for medicinal products when used with a medical  device. EMA/CHMP/QWP/BWP/259165/2019 ii.https://www.fda.gov/combination-products. iii.The combination of medical devices and medicinal products revisited from the new  European legal framework iv.D.C. Schillinger. The oﬃce of combination products: its roots, its creation, and its role.  https://dash.harvard.edu/handle/1/8852096 (2004) v.Committee on Energy and Commerce. 2001. Evaluating the Eﬀectiveness of the Food and  Drug Administration Modernization Act. GPO.gov.  http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-107hhrg72831/html/CHRG-107hhrg72831.htm vi.https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-21/chapter-I/subchapter-A  part-3/subpart-A/section-3.2 vii.https://www.fda.gov/media/106799/download viii. https://www.fda.gov/about-fda/oﬃce-clinical-policy-and-programs/oﬃce-combination-  products ix.https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/rfd-process x.https://www.fda.gov/media/80495/download xi.https://www.fda.gov/media/102706/download xii.https://www.fda.gov/media/119958/download xiii. MedTech Europe, 2019. Use of symbols to indicate compliance with the MDR - Version 2.0  (December 2019), Resource Library. European Union, pp. 1–16.  https://www.medtecheurope.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/191217_MD-labelling_Sym bols-guidance_REVISED_ FINAL.pdf xiv. https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2016/12/20/2016-30485/postmarketing-saf ety reporting-for-combination-products xv.Postmarketing Safety Reporting for Combination Products. A Rule by the Food and Drug  Administration on 12/20/2016 xvi. https://www.fda.gov/media/111788/download xvii. Questions & Answers for applicants, marketing authorisation holders of medicinal products  and notiﬁed bodies with respect to the implementation of the Medical Devices and In Vitro  Diagnostic Medical Devices Regulations ((EU) 2017/745 and (EU) 2017/746) xviii. MDCG 2020-12. Medical Device Coordination Group, 2020. Guidance on transitional  provisions for consultations of authorities on devices incorporating a substance which  may be considered a medicinal product and which has action ancillary to that of the  device, as well as on devices manufactured using TSE susceptible animal tissues (June  2020), MDCG 2020-12. European Union, pp. 1–6.  https://ec.europa.eu/health/sites/default/ﬁles/md_sector/docs/md_mdcg_2020  12_guidance_transitional_provisions_en.pdf.ClinChoice is a leading global Contract Research Organization (CRO), with over 4000  clinical research, regulatory, product vigilance, and toxicology professionals across  North America, Asia, and Europe. For more than 28 years, ClinChoice has been providing  high-quality contract research services to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical  device, vaccine, and consumer healthcare product clients, encompassing a broad range  of services and therapeutic areas.About ClinChoice 


 
https://clinchoice.com/resources/
https://clinchoice.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/12/Gut-Microbiota_ebook-v4.pdf
Page 1 of 12              eBook     Page 2 of 12        Introduction  ...………………………………………………………………………………….  3  Importance of Microbioata in Health  ..………………………………………………… .…. 3  Gut Microbiome -Mediated Toxicit y ...…………………………………………………… .. 4  Strategies for Consideration of Microbiota in Toxi cological Risk Assessments  ...….. 6  Consideration s of Microbiota During the Conduct of Toxi cological Studies ...…… ….7  Summary ………………………………………………………………………………………. 8                        Page 3 of 12   INTRODUCTION   The human gut houses 1014 microorganisms that play a crucial role in physiological functions such  as immunomodulation, metabolic functions, hemodynamic s, electrophysiology, mental status,  mood, behavior,  production of neuroactive molecules, and brain development  [1]. Microbiota   refers to the community of microorganisms present in species such as humans. The m icrobiome  is the collective genomes of all the microorganisms present in a species [2].   The alterations in the functional metabolites generated from gut  microbiota play an essential   role in the pathogenesis of various human ailments ; for example , lipopolysaccharides (LPS)  and  peptidoglycan  are the metabolites generated from  gut microbiota that act as pro -inflammatory  agents  [3]. The short -chain fatty acids (SCFA) and bile acids modulate the secretion of glucagon - like peptide (GLP -1), which is linked to insulin secretion and glucose metabolism  [4]. The  tryptophan metabolites , such as indole -3-acetic acid and indole -3-propionic acid , are linked to  immunity and irritable bowel syndrome (IBS)  [5]. The bacterial metabolite trimethylamine N - oxide (TMAO) formed from choline and L -carnitine directly corre lates  with incidences of  cardiovascular diseases  [6]. The gut bacterial fermentation products of protein , such as  polyamines and N -nitroso compounds , are known to exert carcinogenic potential  [7]. In addition,  gut microbiome -metabolized  products are considered essential  sources of fat-soluble vitamins   (thiamine, riboflavin, vitamin B6, and vitamin B12 , among others ) and micro nutrients  (vitamin A,  vitamin D, iron, and zinc, among others ). They  are known to be pivotal in the central nervous  system by acting as neurotransmitters or precursors [8]. Thus, the gut microbiota has a profound  role in the health and disease of animals and humans . Any alterations in the gut  microbiota can  lead to systemic alterations in different pathologies , as highlighted in a few examples above.  However, so far , there is no provision or consideration for evaluating the impact of xenobiotics ,  such as pharmaceuticals , on the normal gut  microbiota and associated health complications, both  in the pre -clinical and clinical phases of development. With this background, this article focuse s  on leveraging gut microbiota's impact on health and disease  and its considerations in the  toxicological risk assessment of various xenobiotics intended for human use , such as  pharmaceuticals .  IMPORTANCE OF MICROBIOTA IN HEALTH   The m icrobiome is coevolved in humans and healthy individuals . The microbiome is said to be in  the symbiosis or eubiosis state, in which the microbiome is intact with its functions , such as  digestion and absorption of food and xenobiotics, eliciting the im mune response, protecting the  body from external microorganisms, and producing the essential metabolites required for  normal  functioning of the  body  [9]. Any alterations in the normal microbiota are called dysbiosis, which  is scientifically well-established for being  linked with various disease states such as inflammatory   bowel di seases (IBS)  [10, 5] , neuro psychiatric  disorders [11, 12] , cancers  [13, 14] , cardio - metabolic disorders [15, 16, 17] , liver diseases [18, 19]  and so on.   Furthermore, a n experimental study was performed  using young (3 months), old (18 months) ,  and aged male C57BL/6J mice (24 months)  to explore the role of gut  microbiota on the gut-brain   axis, gut -retinal axis , and associated inflammatory pathways . Initially , fecal  pellets were collected  from all the animals , and the inherent gut microbiota associated with the animals were depleted  Page 4 of 12   by giving a cocktail  of broad -spectrum  antibiotics  orally for three  days  (100 μL  each of vancomycin  5 mg/mL , metronidazole, 10 mg/mL , ampicillin 1 000mg /L, neomycin 5 00 mg/L). The fecal  pellets  collected from these mice (young, old, and aged) before  antibiotic treatment ( Baseline or Pre- Abx) were used to prepare the fecal  slurry , which is used for the fecal  microbial transfer ( FMT ).  The fecal  samples collected at baseline ( pre-Abx), post -anti-biotic ( post-Abx) treatment , and  post -FMT were subjected to metabolomic analysis  [20].   The results revealed t hat post -Abx, the aged animals developed retinal and CNS inflammation  through alterations in the gut  microbiota and associated detrimental effects on the gut-brain  axis  and gut -retinal axis ; surprisingly , these pathological changes noticed in the aged  animals were  rever sed upon doing FMT from the young animals. On the other hand, upon doing FMT from  aged animals, the normal healthy young animals developed CNS and retinal inflammation  through alterations in  the gut  microbiota [20]. Thus, this experiment demonstrated that age- related changes in the gut  microbiota  have a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of CNS and retinal  inflammation.    GUT MICROBIOME -MEDIATED TOXICITY   The toxicity associated with gut  microbiome or chemical -gut microbial interactions is broadly  classified into two types 1) toxicant modulation of the microbiome (TMM) and 2) microbiome  modulation of the toxicant (MMT) . The changes in the microbiota after expos ure to the test  substance are called TMM . At the same time,  the biotransformation of the exposed chemical ,  either more or less toxic, in the presence of microbial enzymes or microbial metabolites , is  termed MMT. In MMT, different groups of bacterial metabo lizing enzymes have been discovered ,  such as β-lyases, sulfatases, β-glucuronidases, nitro -reductases, and azo -reductases. They have   unique roles in the metabolic modifications of test chemicals.     The evidence suggests that gut  microbiota metabolizes the xenobiotics more extensively and  effectively than any other organ system in the body . Hence, microbiota -mediated enzymatic  modifications of the test chemical are considered the first mechanism by which toxicity of a  xenobiotic is induced either more or les s. The o ther one i s bioavailability . The gut microbiome  has a significant role in the absorption of xenobiotics and , therefore, is considered a deciding  factor in the induction of toxicity in the host [21].    One of the classic examples of microbiome -modulated  toxicity is cyclamate -induced  carcinogenicity. Cyclamate is one of the widely used artificial sweetener s in Europe. However, it  was banned in the UK and US due to the carcin ogenic potential of one of its metabolite s named ,  cyclohexamine. In  an ex vivo  experiment, various tissues were pre -incubated with cyclamate to  see the conversion ; interesting ly, the conversion of cyclamate to cyclohexamine was evident only  in the lower gu t contents, and the conversion was negligible in other tissues , including the liver,  kidney, spleen, and blood . In support of this, a n in vivo  study conducted on rats using radio - labeled cyclamate  revealed similar results. In another  experiment , rats were administered  cyclamate in drinking water for several months, and the rats bec ame converters ; however, the  conversion ability was lost when antibiotics were co -administered along with cyclamate [21, 23,  Page 5 of 12   24]. Thus, all the available evidence strong ly suggests that gut microbiota  has a significant  role in the formation of cyclohexamine  from cyclamate . Hence , the gut microbiota  has a pivotal role in cyclamate’s carcinogenicity .    Table 1. Examples of gut-microbiome -mediated toxicity through TMM and MMT mechanisms.     In this case, the parent chemical was not carcinogenic; however , the gut microbiota  has generated a toxic metabolite from the parent chemical ; it  is an example of microbiome -modulated  toxicity.   Similarly, melamine is used in infant formulas and pet food. In 2008, melamine grabbed  a lot of attention from the media and the public d ue to its  toxic effects , such as mortality and nephrotoxicity in animals and children. The nephrotoxicity was due to one of the toxic metabolite s, ‘cyanuric  acid’, formed due to the activity of gut  microbiota. Interestingly, these toxic effects observed in rats were rever sed upon antibiotic administration .  Thus, it was confirmed that the reported toxicity was due to the toxic metabolite formed from melamine rather than melamine a lone. Particularly,  Klebsiella terrigena  has significantly increased the toxic m etabolite formation  from melamine. The renal toxicity of melamine is mediated by the GI  microbiota  [25].   On the other hand, t he TMM is yet another mechanism in which perturbation of the gut microbiome by some toxicant exposure may signif icantly  impact  normal health.  As highlighted earlier, alterations in normal gut flora have been linked to various human ailments. For example, exposure to Examples of gut microbiome -mediated toxicity (MMT) in experimental animals   Xenobiotic  Microbiome -induced alteration  Organism / Test system  Effects   Chloramphenicol  Amine formation  Enterobacteria  Bone marrow aplasia  [27]  Balsalazide  Azoreduction → mesalamine  Pseudomonas aeruginosa  Anorexia, nausea, and skin rash  [28, 29]  Risperidone  Ring cleavage -> 9-hydroxy -risperidone  Rats and dogs  Symptoms of Parkinson ’s disease  [30]  Pyrene  Hydroxylation -> 1-hydroxypyrene  Human gut microbiota  Endocrine disruption [31]  Benzo(a)pyrene  Hydroxylation -> 7-hydroxybenzo(a)pyrene  Human gut microbiota  Endocrine disruption  [31]  Nitrazepam  Nitroreduction -> 7-aminonitrazepam  Sprague -Dawley rats  Teratogenic  [32]  Examples of the toxicant -induced altered microbiome (TMM) in experimental animals   Xenobiotic  Toxicant -induced microbiome alteration or  dysbiosis  Test system  Effects   Glyphosate  General gut flora depletion  Mice  Anxiety and depression  [26]  Ethanol   (Oxidative metabolite)  ↓Bacteroides, Bifidobacterium and Ruminococcus. ↑  Streptococcus and other minor species.  Humans  Rectal cancer  [33, 34]  Arsenic  ↑Bacteroidetes and ↓ Firmicutes  IL-10 −/− mice  Dysbiosis of the Gut  [35]   Page 6 of 12       valproic acid, antibiotics, arsenic, lead, cadmium, nickel, and silver nanoparticles has been  scientifically proven to cause alterations in the gut microbiome.   One of the typical examples of TMM is glyphosate -induced toxicity. Glyphosate is one of the most   widely used herbicides for agricultural purposes. It is known to act by inhibiting the shikimic acid  pathway in herbs and is assumed to have extremely low toxicity in animals since this pathway is  absent in animals. However, in experimental studies, glyph osate has caused depression and  anxiety in the experimental animals; mechanism -based studies revealed that gut microbiota has  a shikimic acid pathway, and glyphosate has caused depression and anxiety in animals by causing  dysbiosis of the gut microbiota. T hus, toxicant -induced altered gut microflora significantly  impacts health  [26].   Examples of gut microbiome -mediated toxicity through TMM and MMT mechanisms are  summarized in Table 1.   STRATEGIES FOR CONSIDERATION OF MICROBIOTA IN TOXICOLOGICAL RISK ASSESSM ENTS   It is crucial  to evaluate and understand what the drug/test substance does to the gut microbial  community and what gut microbiota does to the drug/test substance. There are step -by-step  approaches for evaluating gut microbiota -associated toxicities.   The following appro aches can be used to evaluate microbiome -correlated toxicities  [29]:  1. In silico  analysis/ predictions : This can be performed using databases such as t he  Mechanism of Action of the Human Microbiome  (MAHMI), Microbiome Database (MDB),  Human Microbiome Project (HMB), Association Between Microbiota and Disease   (Amadis), Disbiome, microbiota —active substance interactions  (MASI) and so on.   2. In vitro  cell cultures: The microbial cells isolated from various sites were cultured under  diverse conditions to mimic the gut  microbiome . This test system was used for both MMT  and TMM studies.   3. Pre-clinical testing : This is the most conventional method, which considers all the possible  interactions of the host -microbiome. In this test, the substance -mediated toxicities via  different mechanisms involving the microbiome will be evaluated in experimental  animals.   4. Gnotobiotic animal models: The germ -free animals were infected with the organism of  interest and subjected to testing.   5. Human studies : This involves exposing healthy human volunteers to the test substance  and evaluating the associated health risks mediated through MMT and TMM  mechanisms.   Pertaining to the in vitro  and in vivo  experimental approaches, the fecal samples must be  collected and assessed for abundance and variability in the microbiota to understand the  xenobiotic -induced alterations in gut microbiota and associated effects . Any observed alteration  should be scientif ically correlated for possible adverse reactions or diseases. For example,  overexpression of Fusobacterium nucleatum  bacteria was reported to cause colon tumorigenesis   Page 7 of 12       in rodents , and decreased abundance of Akkermansia muciniphila  was reported in obesity a nd  diabetes, and the la tter was reversed upon supplementing A. muciniphila.    Conversely, pharmacometabolomics/ chemometabolomics  is the branch of metabolomics that  deals with quantifying and analyzing metabolites formed from drugs/chemicals, respectively; t his  helps identify the metabolites, map the metabolic pathways, and explore their possible role in  the drug/chemical -induced toxicities. I f the metabolites formed are well -known, the toxicity  profile can be assessed from the available literature on the met abolites , while in the case of  unknown metabolites , a conventional toxicological risk assessment must be performed for the  new metabolite /s identified  [36]. The Pharmacometabolomics/Chemicometabolomics approach  has been illustrated in Figure 1.     Figure 1. Pharmacometabolomics/Chemicometabolomics approach   CONSIDERATIONS OF MICROBIOTA DURING THE CONDUCT OF TOXICOLOGICAL STUDIES   As highlighted above , gut microbiota may represent substantial and incomprehensible effects in  the in vivo  toxicological assessments. The gut microbiota is one of the possible mechanisms  postulated for the significant variations observed in the animal experimental outcomes , such as  individual -to-individual  and/or study -to-study  variation  [37]. However, despite being a significant  factor in xenobiotics -mediated  toxicity or being a target for xenobiotic -induced toxicity, the gut  microbiota has not been considered while conduct ing toxicity studies, as none of the currently  recommended guidelines or international standards mandates  the consideration of gut  microbiota -related effects  in the design and conduct of pre -clinical studies  and as a part of risk  assessment .    Page 8 of 12       The following ap proaches can be adopted before and during the pre -clinical toxicological  experiments to fill the evidential gap and compensate for the possible variabilities that may arise  from    1]. As much as possible , procure the animals with standardized microbiota . In case it is  unavailable, obtain information on the origin of the species, such as litter, breeding, and  barrier, which  must be considered during the randomization of animals.   2]. Choose the animal model/spe cies with the utmost bacterial diversity comparable to wild  animals.   3]. Routine evaluation of gut microbiota , including the diversity and composition of animals  receiving the xenobiotic treatments during the toxicity studies (before, during, and at  terminatio n)  4]. Evaluation of the impact of the xenobiotics on the gut microbiota and vice versa gives better  clarity to correlate the role of gut microbiota in the toxicity of the xenobiotics on the in vivo   systems     SUMMARY   Based on the available scientific evidence, it can be concluded that gut microbiota has a  significant role in xenobiotic -induced toxicity. However, as of now, the gut microbiota is not  included as a part of toxicity testing either in any guideline or as a requirement in any regulatory  authorities. In the absence of any guidelines and recommendations, the role of gut microbiota  has been overlooked or disregarded.     The inclusion of gut microbiota in toxicological assessments of pharmaceuticals is the need of the  hour. Gut microbiota has a significant role in the quality of life; hence, it must be included in the  toxicological assessments. Further, gut microbiota -related assessments should be included as a  part of regulatory requirements to determine/rule out a ny possibilities of test substance -induced  perturbances of the normal gut microbiome.     Literature Search Strategy:   A detailed literature search was performed using the search term s  “Gut microbiota ” in combination with ‘dysbiosis ’, ‘toxicology ,’ ‘disorders ’, ‘mechanism ’, ‘toxicity  testing ’, ‘toxicology risk assessment ’, ‘strategies for toxicity testing,’  and so on. in the online  databases such as PubMed/Medline, ScienceDirect, and Google Scholar. All the articles obtained  from the above databases w ere initially screened with the “abstract ” or “full-length copy, ” and  the papers fitting into the criteria were considered. Further, wherever additional data was  required, the cross -references in the papers and reviews were searched.   At Clin Choice, we have  a team of experienced and dedicated toxicologists who are expertise in  the literature search, risk and hazard identification, and preparation of toxicological profiles,  including cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, chemicals, and medical devices. Also, we have a team of  experts working on preparing and reviewing non -clinical electronic common technical documents  (eCTD) for botanicals, chemicals, and pharmaceuticals for submission to regulatory approvals   Page 9 of 12       References     [1]  Heijtz Rochellys Diaz et al., "Normal gut microbiota modulates brain development and behavior,"  Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, vol. 108, no. 7,  pp. 3047 -3052, 2011.   [2]  R. P. D. G. J. Ley, "Ecological and evolutionary forces shaping microbial diversity in the human  intestine.," Cell. , vol. 124, no. 4, pp. 837 -848, 2006.   [3]  Amar et al., "Intestinal mucosal adherence and translocation of commensal bacteria at the early   onset of type 2 diabetes: Molecular mechanisms and probiotic treatment.," EMBO Mol. Med., vol.  3, p. 559 –572., 2011.   [4]  Tolhurst et al., "Short -Chain Fatty Acids Stimulate Glucagon -Like Peptide -1 Secretion via the G - Protein –Coupled Receptor FFAR2.," Diabetes., vol. 61, pp. 364 -371, 2012.   [5]  R. M. L. V. P. H. -P. M. M. -L. D. C. G. B. C. J. S. H. T. Lamas B., "CARD9 impacts colitis by altering gut  microbiota metabolism of tryptophan into aryl hydrocarbon receptor ligands.," Nature Medicine,  vol. 22, p p. 598 -605, 2016.   [6]  Wang et al., "Gut flora metabolism of phosphatidylcholine promotes cardiovascular disease.,"  Nature, vol. 472, pp. 57 -63, 2011.   [7]  H. G. F. H. Louis P., "The gut microbiota, bacterial metabolites and colorectal cancer.," Nat. R ev.  Genet. , vol. 12, p. 661 –672, 2014.   [8]  H. K. Biesalski, "Nutrition meets the microbiome: Micronutrients and the microbiota.," Ann. N. Y.  Acad. Sci., vol. 1372, p. 53 –64., 2016.   [9]  R. J. Petersen C, "Defining dysbiosis and its influence on host immunity and disease.," Cell  Microbiol. , vol. 16, no. 7, pp. 1024 -1033, 2014.   [10]  Manichanh et al., "The gut microbiota in IBD.," Nat. Rev. Gastroenterol. Hepatol, vol. 9, p. 599 – 608., 20 12.   [11]  B. K. A. -C. S. F. B. W. E. Tremlett H., "The gut microbiome in human neurological disease: A  review.," Ann. Neurol. , vol. 81, p. 369 –382. , 2017.   [12]  Collins et al., "The interplay between the intestinal microbiota and the brain.," Nat. Re v. Genet.,  vol. 10, p. 735 –742., 2012.   [13]  J. Vimal, I. Himal and S. Kannan, "Role of microbial dysbiosis in carcinogenesis & cancer therapies,"  Indian J Med Res, vol. 152, no. 6, pp. 553 -561, 2020.   Page 10 of 12       [14]  Yang Yongzhi et al., "Dysbiosis of human gut microbiome in young -onset colorectal cancer," Nature  Communication, vol. 12, p. 6757, 2021.   [15]  Novakovic et al., "Role of gut microbiota in cardiovascular diseases.," World J Cardiol., vol. 12, no.  4, pp. 110 -122., 2020.   [16]  Anselmi Gaia et al., "Gut Microbiota and Cardiovascular Diseases," Cardiology in Review, vol. 29,  no. 4, pp. 195 -204, 2021.   [17]  D. Kumar, S. S. Mukherjee, R. Chakraborty, R. R. Roy, A. Pandey, S. Patra and S.  Dey, "The emerging  role of gut microbiota in cardiovascular diseases," Indian Heart J., vol. 73, no. 3, pp. 264 -272.,  2021.   [18]  Albillos et al., "The gut -liver axis in liver disease: Pathophysiological basis for therapy.," J Hepatol.,  vol. 72, no. 3, pp. 558 -577., 2020.   [19]  B. Schnabl and D. A. Brenner, "Interactions between the intestinal microbiome and liver diseases,"  Gastroenterology, vol. 146, no. 6, pp. 1513 -1524, 2014.   [20]  R. S. A. R. e. a. Parker A, "Fecal microbiota transfer between yo ung and aged mice reverses  hallmarks of the aging gut, eye, and brain.," Microbiome. , vol. 10, no. 1, p. 68, 2022.   [21]  K. J. M. and B. C. R. D. , "The Role of the Human Microbiome," International Journal of Toxicology,  vol. 38, no. 4, pp. 251 -264, 201 9.   [22]  A. Renwick and R. Williams, "The fate of cyclamate in man and other species.," Biochem J., vol.  129, no. 4, pp. 869 -879, 1972.   [23]  Renwick and R. Williams, "Gut bacteria and the metabolism of cyclamate in the rat," Biochem J.,  vol. 114, no. 4, p. 78P, 1969.   [24]  Bickel et al., "Entero -bacterial formation of cyclohexylamine in rats ingesting cyclamate.,"  Xenobiotica., vol. 4, no. 5,  pp. 425 -439, 1974.   [25]  Xiaojiao Zheng et al., "Melamine -induced renal toxicity is mediated by the gut microbiota.," Sci  Transl Med., vol. 5, no. 172, p. 172ra22, 2013.   [26]  Y. e. a. Aitbali, "Glyphosate based - herbicide exposure affects gut microbiota, anxiety and  depression -like behaviors in mice.," Neurotoxicol Teratol., no. 67, pp. 44 -49, 2018.   [27]  R. Holt, "The bacterial degradation of chloramphenicol.," Lancet., vol. 1, no. 7502, pp. 1259 -60,  1967.   Page 11 of 12       [28]  Tiago Sousa et al., "On the colonic bacterial metabolism of azo -bonded prodrugsof 5 -aminosalicylic  acid.," J Pharm Sci., vol. 103, no. 10, pp. 3171 -5, 2014.   [29]  Jason M Koontz et al., "The Role of the Human Microbiome in Chemical Toxicity," Internation al  Journal of Toxicity, vol. 38, no. 4, pp. 251 -264, 2019.   [30]  Meuldermans et al., "The metabolism and excretion of risperidone after oral administration in rats  and dogs.," Drug Metab Dispos. , vol. 22, no. 1, pp. 129 -38., 1994.   [31]  T. V. d. Wiele , "Human colon microbiota transform polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons to estrogenic  metabolites.," Environ Health Perspect., vol. 113, no. 1, pp. 6 -10, 2005.   [32]  T. S and S. T., "Involvement of the intestinal microflora in nitrazepam -induced teratogenic ity in rats  and its relationship to nitroreduction.," Teratology., vol. 44, no. 2, pp. 209 -14, 1991.   [33]  Atsuki Tsuruya et al., "Ecophysiological consequences of alcoholism on human gut microbiota:  implications for ethanol -related pathogenesis of colon  cancer.," Sci Rep., vol. 13, no. 6, p. 27923,  2016.   [34]  Johnson et al., "Molecular Mechanisms of Alcohol -Induced Colorectal Carcinogenesis.," Cancers,  vol. 13, no. 17, p. 4404, 2021.   [35]  Kun et al., "Gut Microbiome Phenotypes Driven by Host Genetics Affect Arsenic Metabolism," Logo  of acssd, vol. 27, no. 2, pp. 172 -174, 2014.   [36]  G. Velmurugan, "Gut microbiota in toxicological risk assessment of drugs and chemicals: The need  of hour.,"  Gut Microbes., vol. 9, no. 5, pp. 465 -468, 2018.   [37]  T. R. Licht and M. I. Bahl, "Impact of the gut microbiota on chemical risk," Current opinion in  Toxicology, vol. 15, pp. 109 -113, 2019.                   Page 12 of 12       Author s  Dr. G  L Vishwanatha, M. Pharm, Ph.D ., ERT (UK-RT), PG (Statistics), MBA   Associate Manager – Toxicology team   Clinchoice Private Limited   Bangalore -560078   Karnataka, India   E-mail: vishwanatha.gl@clinchoice.com   Phone: 098444 92334       Mr. D N Vijay Ragav , M. Sc     Senior  Manager – Toxicology team   Clinchoice Private Limited   Bangalore -560078   Karnataka, India   E-mail:  vijayragav.  d @clinchoice.com       About ClinChoice   ClinChoice  is a leading global Contract Research Organization (CRO), with over 3400 clinical  research professionals across North America, Asia, and Europe. For more than 27 years,  ClinChoice has been providing high -quality contract research services to pharmaceutica l,  biotechnology, medical device, and consumer products clients, encompassing a broad range of  services and therapeutic areas. ClinChoice offers cutting -edge, full -service solutions for Clinical  Trials, Regulatory Affairs, Medical Device Safety, Toxicology , and Medical Affairs.    


 
https://clinchoice.com/resources/
https://clinchoice.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/ClinChoice_MDS_CaseStudy_APAC_DtP_053122.pdf
1 Copyright 2022 Medidata Solutions, Inc., a Dassault Systèmes companyCASE STUDY Optimizing Dire ct-to-Patient S upply  Manag ement: ClinChoice and 89Bio  Case Study PIVOTING TO PRESERVE CONTINUITY OF CARE  The CRO ClinChoice and the sponsor 89Bio were conducti ng a phase II, randomized,  double-blind, placebo-controlled study to explore the efficacy and safety of  investigational drug X in subjects with severe hypertriglyceridemia (SHTG). The  companies needed to pivot to a decentralized protocol d uring the pandemic or face  trial disruption.  Needing to maintain trial integrity during the COVID-19 pandemic, while prioritizing  patients' safety and their continued participation in the study were key factors to  initiating a Direct-to-Patient (DtP) solution. This allowed the patient to choose to be  dosed on site or at home. However, with 300 sites and 200 patients across both the US and Canada, the trial’s  hybrid approach needed to adhere to differing regulatory guidelines. It also required  the ability to provide flexible dispensation preferences (i.e., home or site based on  each dosing visit), and quick response to remote pat ient needs.    ClinChoice and 89Bio needed a partner that could provi de the ease and flexibility   to rapidly execute DtP, while ensuring Investigational Product (IP) supply  management and optimization.  ClinChoice’s longtime partnership with Medidata acros s multiple trials and different  solutions earned their trust and confidence, and they engaged Rave RTSM’s DtP  capabilities and professional services to ensure the cli nical trial’s success. RAVE RTSM: DIRECT TO PATIENT (DtP) Traditional Product ShipmentHybrid of  Site/Home Patient- Speci/f_ic  Shipment Site HomeDepotDelivers IP directly to a patient’s home, bypassing the need for the  patient to travel directly to a site.What to Ask When  Considering A DtP Solution Can DtP manage different  dispensation scenarios (site   vs. patient home)? How are shipments triggered by  RTSM in those different scenarios? Does DtP trigger dispensation   prior to an upcoming visit?Are roles assigned to designated  personnel in the dispensation process? Can action items be triggered   in the dispensation process?How will your team be trained   and supported when adopting   a DtP solution?2 Copyright 2022 Medidata Solutions, Inc., a Dassault Systèmes companyCASE STUDY2 Medidata, a Dassault Systèmes company, is leading the digital transformation of life sciences.  Discover more at www.medidata.com and follow us @medidata . Contact us at info@medidata.com   |   +1 866 515 6044 Copyright 2022 Medidata Solutions, Inc., a Dassault Systèmes companyCASE STUDY Considerations When Engaging in DtP The Learning Curve  Lack o f experience a n d  knowledge to determine DtP  or Depot to Site dispensation  options raised concerns about  a steep learning curve.Processes and   Document Changes Thorough understanding of the advantages  of using DtP rather than a traditional depot  required an adaptive, creative, and decisive  approach for successful implementation.Policy Differences  Across Countries Management of dispensation in  light of differing regulations  (US allows DtP, Canada does  not) required a flexible solution. Differences between traditional Depot to Site and DtP Subject Depot PharmacySiteDepot Site SubjectTRADITIONAL  DEPOT TO SITEDtP Dispensation occu rs on-site Resupply Predicti on Algorithm runs daily Site Shipping Address is stored in the  system and embedded in Shipping Alerts Site reports to temperature excur sion,  quarantine or confirm shipmentAllows patients to choose on- site or at home Daily Prediction Algorithm is not applicable Patient Shipping Address is cap tured outside   of Rave EDC/Rave RTSM Courier or Patient to contac t site to confirm  shipment  and report temperature reading To succeed in im plementing DtP in tandem with Depot to Site options, the IP Supplier, Clinical Operations, Data  Management, and the Site would have to address c hallenges and considerations and collaborate to define processes to  support what was for many their first experience with DtP capabilities.3 Copyright 2022 Medidata Solutions, Inc., a Dassault Systèmes companyCASE STUDY3 Medidata, a Dassault Systèmes company, is leading the digital transformation of life sciences.  Discover more at www.medidata.com and follow us @medidata . Contact us at info@medidata.com   |   +1 866 515 6044 Copyright 2022 Medidata Solutions, Inc., a Dassault Systèmes companyCASE STUDY A Comprehensive DtP Solution  The industry’s leading RTSM provider, Medidata was a clear choice for 89Bio and Clinchoice in their adoption of  DtP, allowing trial continuity and maintaining focus on patient centricity by alleviating the burden of patients who  have to travel to the site.  Medidata worked with the Sponsor, CRO, site, and depot to  integrate the DtP system across the entire supply  chain. Its agility to be used in decentralized, hybri d, or on-site trials and flexibility to offer a choice o f  dispensation scenarios, whether at the patient or visit l evel, ensured it met both US and Canadian regulation  requirements, a nd supp orted accelerated pro cesses by automating workflows.  Rave  RTSM enabled the study team to have a f ull overview of all shipments, including  Dt P shipments status  updates for IP at each point. RTSM, like  all soluti ons across the Medidata platform, does not maintain patient  identifiable data, such as patient addresses. This information  is kept outside the system and is managed via direc t  communication between the sites and the depot, removing an o pportunity  fo r a breach of patient identifiable  information (PII). In a changing global landscape, 89BIO and ClinChoice took advantage of the opportunity to explore the us e of  enhanced Rave RTSM DtP technologies, accelerating their own di gital transformation and increasing patient  satisfaction. Keys to DtP Success With guidance and training from Medidata’s Professional Se rvices team, the CRO and Sponsor/Site: Created a connected DtP workflow, providing step- by-step instructions to assign action throughout  the DtP process, eliminating confusion and  margins of error Received training and eLearnings prior  t o RTSM  DtP setup to promote usability a nd compliance Created a dispensation source field  in eCRF (electronic case report for m),  a critical data point to direct IP for a p articular  visitAssigned designated personnel to  trigger dispensation prior to upcomi ng  visits to accelerate data entry of  dispensation source field Used Business Object© (BO4)’s daily ad hoc report with enhanced alerts t o the  study team to trigger dispensation,  while also taking tracking  responsibilities 


 
https://clinchoice.com/resources/
https://clinchoice.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/Preparing-FDA-Submission-Data-Packages.pdf
   Preparing FDA Submission Data Packages          Yuguang Zhao, MS  Senior Vice President, Programming and Development   Tiepu Liu, MD, PhD   President of Global Biometrics          Contents  Executive Summary ............................................. ............................................................... ............ 1   History........................................................ ............................................................... ...................... 2   CDISC and FDA: Working Together ............................... .............................................................. 4  Standardized Study Data Package ............................... ............................................................... .... 6  Planning with the End in Mind ................................. ............................................................... ....... 8  Study Data Standardization Plan (SDSP) ........................ ............................................................ 8   Conversion Decisions .......................................... ............................................................... ......... 8  Agency Communications ......................................... ............................................................... .... 9  eCTD Test Submission........................................... ............................................................... ...... 9  Benefits of Implement ing Data Standards ....................... ...............................................................  9  Conclusion .................................................... ............................................................... ................. 10   References .................................................... ............................................................... .................. 11   About the Authors ............................................. ............................................................... ............. 13                              1     Executive Summary  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is now requiring th at studies initiated after  December 17, 2016 be submitted in New Drug Applications (NDAs),  Biologics License  Applications (BLAs) and Abbrev iated New Drug Applications (ANDA s) according to accepted  Clinical Data Interchange Standa rds Consortium (CDISC) standard  electronic formats including  the Standard for Exchange of Nonclinical Data (SEND), the Study  Data Tabulation Model  (SDTM), and the Analysis Data Model (ADaM). Studies initiated a fter December 17, 2017 will  be required in the same formats for Investigational New Drug Applications  (INDs).1   The FDA is responsible for protecting the public health by ensu ring the safety, efficacy, and  security of human and veterinary drugs, biological products, an d medical devices; and by ensuring  the safety of our nation's food supply, cosmetics, and products  that emit radiation. FDA is  responsible for advancing the publ ic health by helping speed in novations that make medical  products more effective, safer, and more affordable and by help ing the public get the accurate,  science-based inform ation they need to use medical products and  foods to maintain and improve  their health.2   The implementation of electronic data standards advances the ag ency’s efforts by enabling more  timely and effective regulatory  reviews of submissions and thei r corresponding data. The FDA has  clearly stated, “Data that are not standardized diminish the Ag ency’s ability to review the data  efficiently, resulting in manual, labor-intensive processes and  inherent inefficiencies in the review.  They also limit the ability to a utomate some routine analyses.”3 The standards open up a world of  opportunity in terms of exchanging, reviewing, and sharing data . However, for some sponsors,  they prompt numerous questions about how to plan for and submit  electronic study data packages  to the FDA. This paper will describe the evolution of relevant standards and provide  recommendations for best practi ces in planning and preparing FD A submission data packages.            2   History  In order to understand current s tudy data standards, it is help ful to know a little about the history  of those standards, what has impa c t e d  t h e i r  e v o l u t i o n ,  a n d  t h e  reasons why they have been  implemented.   On March 20, 1997, the FDA published the Electronic Records and  Electronic Signatures  regulation (FDA 21 CFR Part 11). This regulation was significan t because it signaled a real,  practical shift toward electronic submissions and electronic st andards and enabled applicants to  voluntarily submit parts of their r egulatory submissions in ele ctronic format without requiring a  backup paper copy. The regulatio n also spurred additional guida nces and initiatives to support  electronic submissions.   In April of 1998, CDER issued a draft guidance for the industry , Providing Regulatory  Submissions in Electronic Format — NDAs4. This draft guidance bui lt on the September 1997  guidance with information on submitting a complete archival cop y of a New Drug Application  (NDA) in electronic format. Late r in 1998, the FDA Center for B iologics Evaluation and Research  (CBER) published a draft guidance that focused on assisting app licants in submitting electronic  content in the Biologic License Application (BLA) or Product Li cense Application (PLA) and  Establishment License Applicati on (ELA) submission processes5.   In 1999, the FDA CDER and CBER published Guidance for Industry Providing Regulatory  Submissions in Electronic Format — General Considerations6. This joint  guidance captured the  common standards and considerations for all electronic submissi ons and was followed by  guidances that addressed specifi c submission types (NDAs, BLAs,  etc.).  As the FDA began to accept regulat ory submissions in electronic  format, a broader harmonization  initiative brought the common t echnical document (CTD) to the i nternational stage. The CTD was  developed by a working group with in the International Conferenc e on Harmonization (ICH)7. It  defined five discipline-specific modules for a regulatory submi ssion. The first module is region  specific while modules 2 through 5 are common for all regions.          3   Modular Structure of Common Technical Document8    This initiative sought to decrease the time, effort, and redund ancies of submitting regulatory  content to different health authorities around the world by ide ntifying a common structure and set  of content that would be accepted by all ICH members, including  the US, Japan, and the European  Union. As the CTD matured, the electronic Common Technical Docu ment (eCTD) emerged to  support electronic submissions.   As electronic submissions continued to make progress, the Clini cal Data Interchange Standards  Consortium (CDISC) emerged, add ressing the data component of re gulatory submission standards.  CDISC is a global, open, multidi sciplinary, non-profit organiza tion that has estab lished standards  to support the acquisition, excha nge, submission, and archive o f clinical research data and  metadata. The CDISC mission is to develop and support global, p latform-independent data  standards that enable informati on system interoperability to im prove medical research and related  areas of healthcare.9          4   In July 2004, the FDA first referenced the CDISC Study Data Spe cification in an eCTD guidance.  Then, in December of 2006, the agency announced its intention t o make the CDISC Study Data  Tabulation Model (SDTM) required by regulation.   In May 2015, the FDA issued the guidance titled, Providing Regulatory Subm issions in Electronic  Format — Certain Human Pharmaceutical Product Applications and Related Submissions Using  the eCTD Specifications (revision 3)10.   All of these international initiatives grew from a need for ele ctronic standards. Applicants were  initially using no standards or developing their own. Even with in the same company, standards  would vary and this scenario req uired FDA medical and statistic al reviewers to learn each  company-specific or study-specific approach in order to review an NDA or BLA submission. This  presented a significant challenge. Ramp-up time was required fo r each project review and for each  new reviewer added to a project. The added time and resource co sts started to pile up and had a  negative impact on review proce sses and consequently on the tim e required to get new therapies  to patients.   The continued collaboration of ICH, the FDA, and CDISC has enab led the development of  electronic submission standards supported by technical document ation and specifications that are  constantly being refined, updated, and implemented.    CDISC and FDA: Working Together  The FDA and CDISC have a long history of collaboration. Mutual goals have enabled the  organizations to promote, impleme nt, and refine electronic data  standards. CDISC teams typically  consist of volunteers from across the industry focused on the f ollowing:        5    SDS – Submission Data Standards   ADaM – Analysis Data Model   SEND – Standard for Exchange of Non-clinical Data   CDASH – Clinical Data Acquisi tion Standards Harmonization  The teams include FDA observers and are each focused on progres sing specific standards models,  including the development of supporting documentation such as i mplementation guides.   The Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act was signed into law in July 2012.  This law expanded the agency’s authority to collect user fees t o fund product reviews and promote  innovation with the intent of sp eeding patient acc ess to safe a nd effective products. It also includes  the fifth reauthorization of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act  (PDUFA V). The production of  guidances for the industry on the use of CDISC data standards f or the electronic submission of  study data is included in FDA’s PDUFA goals.11  In December 2014, the FDA issued Providing Regulatory Submission s in Electronic Format —  Standardized Study Data12 along with four technical specifi cations. This binding guidance   describes the requirements for an electronic submission of stan dardized clinical  and nonclinical  study data that use the standard s specified in the Data Standar ds Catalog (Catalog). Technical  specifications are referenced in this guidance document but are  provided as standalone documents  so they can be updated periodically. They include the list belo w and can be accessed on the FDA  website13:   Data Standards Catalog    Study Data Technical Conformance Guide    FDA Specific SEND Validation Rules    FDA Specific SDTM Validation Rules  The Data Standards Catalog lists all supported and required ver sions of standards, their uses, and  start and end dates for FDA support of each standard. It addres ses exchange formats, study data,  and controlled termi nology standards that the FDA can process, review, and archive.        6   The Study Data Technical Conformance Guide replaced the Study D ata Specifications document  and CDER’s Common Data Standards Issues document. It supplement s the guidance and provides  specifications and technical rec ommendations on submitting stan dardized data using those  standards listed in the FDA Data Standards Catalog.   The binding guidance also notes:     The Agency may Refuse-To-File  (RTF) for NDAs and BLAs, or Refuse-To-Receive   (RTR) for ANDAs if an electronic submission does not submit stu dy data in conformance  with the required standards specified in the Catalog.   After the publication of this guidance, all studies with a star t date 24 months  after the  publication date must use the appropriate FDA-supported standar ds, formats, and  terminologies specified in the  Catalog for NDA, ANDA, and certa in BLA submissions and  36 months for IND studies. (This means that most NDA/BLA and AN DA studies  beginning after December 17, 2016 and December 17, 2017 are bou nd by this guidance,  respectively.)    If the application is not submit ted electronically, the sponsor  may receive an RTF or RTR.  The FDA’s electronic submission guidances and regulations, the ICH eCTD specification, and the  CDISC data standards form the foundation for sponsors to submit  regulatory submissions and  supporting data in electronic form at that sustains the receipt and review of information by the  FDA.   Standardized Stu dy Data Package  A standardized study data packag e will include a SEND data pack age, SDTM data package, and  an ADaM data package. Following is  a brief list of the contents  of each package:  SEND Data Package SDTM Data Package ADaM Data Package   acrf.pdf   .xpt files   Define.xml  acrf.pdf   .xpt files   Define.xml .xpt files   Define.xml       7    Study Data  Reviewer’s Guide  (nSDRG.pdf)    Study Data  Reviewer’s Guide  (cSDRG.pdf)  Analysis Data  Reviewer’s Guide  (ADRG.pdf)    The Study Data Technical Conformance Guide 14 illustrates the standard f older structure for study  datasets along with naming conven tions, and a description of th e contents as seen in the following  graphic:          8    Planning with the End in Mind  The complexity involved in the design and creation of submissio n data packages can be a daunting  task. There are several ways to simplify this endeavor with pro per planning and early  collaboration.   Study Data Standardiz ation Plan (SDSP)  The December 2014 FDA Guidance identified the need for a Study Data Standardization Plan  (SDSP). The plan describes the data standardization approach fo r studies within a development  program. The development of an SDSP can help to facilitate inte rnal discussions on the standards  approach, provides a means of tracking discussions and agreemen ts with the FDA documents on  the rationale for legacy data conversion strategies as well as ongoing studies that support data  pooling.   In developing the SDSP, sponsors should identify what studies w ill be submitted in the required  standards. Studies that will be submitted in legacy study data formats should also be identified. It  is important for sponsor teams t o discuss the rationale and app roach for each study early in the  process to ensure that the data will be presented in the submis sion to support the regulatory review  in the best way possible. If it i s determined that a conversion  is required, it is b etter to know early  in the process and to plan and execute the conversion project w ith adequate time for quality  checking and internal review.   The Pharmaceutical Users Software Exchange (PhUSE) is an indepe ndent, not-for-profit  organization run by volunteers that has developed an SDSP template and implementation guide15.  Both documents have been sent to the FDA for review. These docu ments provide a very general  framework, or foundation, for sponsors to begin to compile thei r study data standardization  information.    Conversion Decisions  Sponsors should discuss legacy data conversions as early in the  process as possible. However,  traceability is critical since th e Clinical Study Report (CSR) may be based on legacy data. Key  data verification with SDTM and ADaM datasets will also be nece ssary. This will also impact the       9   sponsor’s data pooling strategy fo r the Integrated  Summaries of  Safety and Efficacy (ISS/ISE).  Determine and document if you will pool at SDTM or ADaM level, and identify the SDTM and  ADaM versions, WHO drug dictiona ry, and MedDRA dictionary versi ons.   Agency Communications  Standard sponsor/FDA meetings c reate opportunities to discuss t he data standardization plan and  the overall approach with the FD A prior to submission. The plan  should be an official agenda topic  for a scheduled agency meeting. S ponsors may start discussions at the pre-IND stage. For INDs,  the plan should be located in th e general investigational plan.  CDER and CBER have jointly  published recommendations for preparing the plan on the FDA web site16. For Sponsors working  toward an NDA, the plan should be submitted no later than the E nd-of-Phase-II Meeting. The pre- NDA/BLA meeting is considered too  late in the process to allow strategy changes.   eCTD Test Submission  As a sponsor prepares to submit a n electronic regulatory submis sion to the FDA, they can submit  a test submission in advance of t he actual submission. This tes t submission allows the sponsor to  prepare a sample set of data and documents for the FDA for a me aningful, comprehensive analysis  that helps to ensure that the sponsor is able to submit accordi ng to specifications. The test  submission is processed just like a real submission so sponsors  can identify any technical  conformance issues. The test s ubmission content does not go thr ough a regulatory review by the  agency.   Benefits of Implemen ting Data Standards  Compliance is the most important  benefit of implementing data s tandards. An RTF or RTR risks  and delays years of research and development; and can be costly  to remediate. Implementing the  standards early and leveraging mechanisms such as the SDSP and the test submission help  sponsors to develop and articulate their approach to data stand ardization for internal and external  stakeholders.        10  By leveraging FDA supported stan dards, sponsors can also facili tate the review process. FDA  reviewers are trained on current  data standards so they will re quire less support in understanding  the structure/format of CDISC-compliant data sets.   Finally, in 2014, CDISC published a business case17 for data standards based on research  conducted in collaboration with Gartner, Inc., a leading IT res earch and advisory company The  research suggested that communi cation among project team member s and partners was improved,  a greater level of accuracy re quiring less training was achieve d, and decision making was  simplified when data standards we re applied. The implementation  of data standards also facilitated  the transfer of data between partners, while positioning the sp onsor to select from a wider choice  of tools and technologies.   Findings suggest that by using CDISC standards from the start, researchers can save 70-90% of  time and resources during the St udy Start Up stage (time to fir st patient enrolled), and ~ 75% of  non-patient participation time during Study Conduct and Analysi s. The business case also suggests  that standardizing data can shave 2 years off of an average 12 year clinical development program.  Conclusion  A submission data package requi res a significan t amount of inte rnal and external collaboration in  order to identify appropriate data standards, to develop a soli d rationale for the data standards  approach, to gain internal cons ensus, and to implement any requ ired conversions. The FDA is able  to provide valuable input into this discussion and should be us ed as a resource in this planning  stage. Open communication with the FDA will add value throughou t the regulatory review process.                 11  Reference   1 Providing Regulatory Submissions in Electronic Format — Submis sions Under Section 745A(a) of the Federal  Food, Drug, and Cosme tic Act, Guidance for Industry, U.S. Depar tment of Health and Hum an Services Food and  Drug Administration Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CD ER), Center for Biologics Evaluation and  Research (CBER), December 2014.  2 US FDA Website: http://www.fda.gov/AboutFDA/WhatWeDo/ , FDA Mission, accessed January 18, 2017.  3 Providing Regulatory Submissions in Electronic Format — Standa rdized Study D ata, Draft Guidance. U.S.   Department of Health and Human Services Food and Drug Administr ation Center for Drug Ev aluation and Research  (CDER), Center for Biologics Ev aluation and Research (CBER), Ce nter for Devices and  Radiological Health  (CDRH), February 2012.   4 Guidance for Industry Providing Regulatory Submissions in Elec tronic Format — NDAs, D raft Guidance, U.S.  Department of Health and Human Services Food and Drug Administr ation Center for Drug Ev aluation and Research  (CDER), April 1998  5 Electronic Submissions of a Bio logics License Application (BLA ), Product License Application (PLA)  /Establishment License Application (ELA) to the Center for Biol ogics Evaluation and Re search (63 FR 29741,  6/1/98).   Electronic Submissions of Case Report Forms (CRFs), Case Report  Tabulations(CRTs) and Data to the Center for  Biologics Evaluation and Research (63 FR 29739; 6/1/98).   Pilot Program for Electronic Inve stigational New Drug (eIND) Ap plications for Biological Products (63 FR 29740;  6/1/98).  Instructions for Submitting Electronic Lot Release Protocols to  the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research  (63 FR 29742; 6/98).  6 Guidance for Industry Providing Regulatory Submissions in Elec tronic Format — General Considerations, U.S.  Department of Health and Human Services Food and Drug Administr ation Center for Drug Ev aluation and Research  (CDER), Center for Biologic Evalu ation and Research (CBER), Jan uary 1999.  7 International Conference on Har monization Website: http://www. ich.org/about/history.htm l, accessed, January 18,  2017  8 International Conference on Harmonization Website: http://www.ich.org/products/ctd.html , accessed, January 18,  2017.   9 Study Data Standards for Regul atory Submissions Position State ment, September 15, 2003, FDA Website:  http://www.fda.gov/ForIndustry/DataStandards/StudyDataStandards /ucm368613.htm , Position Statement, accessed  January 18, 2017.  10 Providing Regulatory Submissions in Electronic Format — Certai n Human Pharmaceutical  Product Applications  and Related Submissions Using the eCTD Specifications Guidance for Industry, U.S. Department of Health and  Human Services Food and Drug Administration Center for Drug Eva luation and Research (CDER), Center for  Biologics Evaluation and Resear ch (CBER), May 2015, Electronic Submissions, Revision 3.  11 Study Data Standards for Regul atory Submissions Position State ment, September 15, 2003, FDA Website:  http://www.fda.gov/ForIndustry/DataStandards/StudyDataStandards /ucm368613.htm , Position Statement, accessed  January 18, 2017.  12 Providing Regulatory Submissions In Electronic Format — Standa rdized Study Data, Guida nce for Industry, U.S.  Department of Health and Human Services Food and Drug Administr ation Center for Drug Ev aluation and Research  (CDER), Center for Biologics Ev aluation and Res earch (CBER), De cember 2014, Electronic Submissions.  13Study Data Standards Resources, FDA Website:  http://www.fda.gov/forindustry/datastandards/studydatastandards /default.htm , Important Notices, accessed January  18, 2017.  14 Study Data Technical Conforman ce Guide, Technical Specificatio ns Document, U.S. Department of Health and  Human Services Food and Drug Administration Center for Drug Eva luation and Research (CDER), Center for  Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER), November 2016.  15 Study Data Standardization Plan, PhUSE Website:   http://www.phusewiki.org/wiki/index.php?title=Study_Data_Standa rdization_Plan_(SDSP) , Project Deliverables,  accessed January 18, 2017.        12    16 CDER/CBER Study Data S tandardization Plan Recommendations, FDA  Website:   http://www.fda.gov/downloads/ForIndustry/DataStandards/StudyDat aStandards/UCM447119.pdf , accessed January  18, 2017.     17 2014 CDISC Business Case, Executive Summary, CDISC Website:  https://www.cdisc.org/system/f iles/all/article/PDF/2014%20Busin ess%20Case_Executive%20Summary.pdf ,  accessed January 18, 2017.        13  About the Authors                  Yuguang Zhao, MS   Senior Vice President of Programming and Development   Yuguang Zhao is the Senior Vice President of Programming and  Development at ClinChoice.  Mr.  Zhao is responsible for providi ng  strategic planning and corporate direction for continued growth  of  the company, providing scientific leadership and resource plann ing  for statistical support on all projects, and ensuring the teams  provide  high quality statistical programming support for Phase I, II, I II, and  IV clinical trials. He has over 19 years of experience in the  pharmaceutical industry and has b een very active in industry wo rking  groups. He is used to be a member in the CDISC SDS team and has   received FDA Leveraging/Collabora tion Award for the participati on  of creation of SDTM and accomp anying implementation guide in  2005.  He has co-led the CDISC/FDA data integration pilot.  For   questions on preparing FDA Submission data packages, please  contact Yuguang at: yuguang.zhao@clinchoice.com     Tiepu Liu, MD, PhD  President of Global Biometrics  Tiepu Liu, MD, PhD, is the President of Global Biometrics at  ClinChoice. Dr. Liu has served as Director of Biostatistics at PPD,  Executive Director of Statistics and Data Management at UBC, an d a  Senior Director of Biostatistics at Graceway Pharmaceuticals an d The  Medicines Company, before joining ClinChoice to lead the  Biostatistics and Data Management functions. Dr. Liu has publis hed  100 scientific papers and more than 100 abstracts and presentat ions.  He has served on numerous scientific review committees and pane ls  for the National Institute of Health (NIH) and other government   agencies. Dr. Liu has led numerous clinical development project s,  interacting with various regulatory agencies and Data Monitorin g  Committees. He has been active in CDISC standards and CFAST  initiative. For questions on preparing FDA submission data pack ages,  please contact Tiepu at: Tiepu.liu@clinchoice.com  


 
https://clinchoice.com/resources/
https://clinchoice.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/07/ClinChoice-PV-facing-pandemic-whitepaper.pdf
                                                           Formerly FMD K&L   WHITE PAPER   The Need for Evolution in Pharmacovigilance  to Face the Pandemics   SOWMYA REDDY ,  SENIOR EXECUTIVE -PHARMACOVIGILANCE,   CLINCHOICE,   INDIA           1 www.clinchoice.com  Contents   ABBREVIATIONS ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..................  2  1. INTRODUCTION  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........  2  2. ROLE OF PHARMACOVIGILANCE DURING A PANDEMIC  ................................ ................................ ..............  3  3. WHAT ROLE DID WE PLAY IN THE PAST?  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 3  4. WHAT LESSONS WERE CARRIED TO THE PRESENT?  ................................ ................................ .....................  3  5. WHAT IS THE NEED FOR EVOLUTION?  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  4  6. WHERE IS THE CHALLENGE?  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........................  4  7. TECHNOLOGY  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .............  4  8. COLLABORATION  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  4  9. PRIORITIZATION  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  5  10. HARMONIZATION  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .......  5  11. EDUCATION, TRAINING, AND COMMUNICATION  ................................ ................................ .......................  5  REFERENCES  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ........................  6  AUTHOR’S PROFILE  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ .............  7  ABOUT CLINCHOICE INC  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 7                                     2 www.clinchoice.com      Abbreviations   ADR   Adverse Drug Reaction   AEFI         Adverse event following immunization   AI           Artificial Intelligence   CHMP        The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use   COVID -19  Corona Virus Disease -2019   EHR         Electronic Health Record   EMA         The European Medicines Agency   E2B  International standard for transm itting medicine adverse event reports   H1N1   Influenza A virus subtype Hemagglutinin Type 1 and Neuraminidase Type 1   ICSR   Individual Case Safety Reports   ICH   International Conference on Harmonization   MAH        Marketing Authorisation Holder   NIPs         National immunization programs   NRAs        National regulatory authorities   PHAC   Public Health Agency of Canada   PSUR        Periodic Safety Update Reports   PV  Pharmacovigilance   RMPs        Risk Management plans   USFDA       United States Food an d Drug Administration   UMC        Uppsala Monitoring Centre   WHO        World Health Organization   WEB -RADR   WEB -Recognizing Adverse  Drug Reactions     1. Introduction   With the evolution in science and technology many thought that a global pandemic outbreak wou ld be  limited to history or movies. But humanity is confronted by a conspicuous pandemic in 2020. WHO saw  it coming in 2019, but did not know when and how severe i t would be . As a precaution, WHO ha d  collaborated  with all th e key minds of the global health  care domain  to ensure active and reasonable  access to health care needs all over the world . [1]  EMA on the other side, conside ring the lessons learned during the 2009 (H1N1) flu pandemic had been  working on improving its pandemic preparedness plan. [ 2]   Some initial work on coronavirus vaccines had been completed before the COVID -19 pandemic, and  challenges to the development of effective and safe vaccines against coronaviruses have been studied.  [3]  Currently, World Health Organization (WHO) -led global solidarity trial, uses new drug, such as  remdesivir, and ‘repurposed’ drugs, such as hydroxychloroquine and lopinavir/ritonavir, for  effectiveness aga inst COVID -19. [ 4]   3 www.clinchoice.com  2. Role of pharmacovigilance  during a pandemic   Pharmacovigilance is no longer a mere regulatory compliant body with timely reporting of what has  happened. It is now a proactive body with the inclusion of risk management and risk minimalization  strategies g iving it a more scientific s ense. But with numerous guidelines in drug safety, overlap in the  analysis, increased workload, and non -harmonized regulations we are at times striving to meet the  regulatory compliance, which overshadows the scientific dimensio n.  A true opportunity to bri ng pharmacovigilance closer to healthcare systems arises during challenging  times. Clinicians, faced with treatment challenges  in the absence of data from randomized controlled  trials, will use available real -life observational data on both treatment benef its and harms. Integration  of pharmacovigilance with clinical practice is a key area of interest to many leaders around the world.  Attention will also be required to detect false information, and corrections to prevent harm.  There is a  lack of experience w orldwide in managing responses from a public health perspective with apparent  differences in approaches between countries to containment/mitigation strategies and regulatory  recommendations for treatment options . [5]   For instanc e, during the early stages, pandemic “infodemic” created a situation, where dr ugs approved  for other indications (chloroquine, hydroxychloroquine, nonsteroidal anti -inflammatory drugs,  angiotensin -converting enzy me inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor antag onists, favipiravir, and  umifenovir) were being used by communities inappropriately or stopped using some drug considering  them to promote infection. [ 6]  3. What role did we play in the past?   Pre-pandemic activities by EMA to face 2009 (H1N1) outlines certain  pharmacovigilance activities  described in the core risk management plan. Those activities included strengthening the spontaneous  reporting systems, for i nstance alternative channels for reporting (web -based) and close monitoring of  events of special inter est; simplified but more frequent PSURs, providing a monthly review of safety  data received by the MAH; post -authorization safety and effectiveness studie s, including a compulsory  safety study in 9,000 subjects for each vaccine along with establishing team s dedicated to the pandemic  areas in some member states.   Between DEC -2009 and AUG -2010, pandemic pharmacovigilance update was published on its website  (weekly and then bi -weekly) providing estimates of exposure, summary of PV data available in  Eudravigilan ce and conclusions of signal reviews which were very effective tools for the agency to deal  with concerns.[ 7]  On the other side, UMC developed PaniFlow  - a tool specifically designed to capture AEFI of A/H1N1  2009 pandemic influenza vaccines and of the adverse events associa ted with treatment with oseltamivir  (Tamiflu) and zanamivir (Relenza ). WHO offered this tool free to countries, particularly emergin g and  developing countries that did not have a good AEFI reporting system in place . PaniFlow enabled  countries to quickly de tect potential safety problems in their own populations and take remedial action  if causality was established. The global picture c ould be rapidly reviewed and the international  community alerted when problems were  suspected or confirmed.  [8] The features of PaniFlow are being  incorporated into VigiFlow and VigiBase during Covid -19 pandemic.   4. What lessons were carried to the present?   Rolling review  – This is one of th e regulatory tools that EMA  uses to speed up the assessment of a  promising medicine or vaccine during a public health emergency. EMA’s human medicines committee - CHMP  reviews data as they become available from ongoing studies, before a formal application is   4 www.clinchoice.com  submitted. So that the CHMP  can reach its opinion sooner on whether or not the medicine or vaccine  should be authorized. [7]  EMA’s human medicines committee has started the first ‘rolling review’ of a COVID -19 vaccine, which  is  being developed by the company AstraZeneca in collaboration with the University of Oxford  as on 01 - OCT-2020.[ 9] and  BNT162b2, which is  being developed by BioNTech in collaboration with Pfizer  as on  06-OCT-2020.[ 10]  5. What is the need fo r evolution?   With all the preparedness, EMA listed  out challenges that required attention, like; better coordination  on  communication among the main EU stakeholders; the practice of common approaches, such as  vaccination strategies and systems for data co llection (number of vaccinated people, vaccine  effectiveness, pregnancy registries and background incidence rates of diseases). Research activities  were needed ahead of a novel pandemic into areas such as technologies and serology assays, and  methodologies  for efficient detection of safety signals during a pandemic.[ 2]  Big Data  analytics  empowers  pharmacovigilance  with  analytical  and prescr iptive  insights  in addition  to  traditional  monitoring  and reports.  An effective  pharmacovigilance  analysis  requires  capturing  and  harnessing  data  from  a wide  range  of sources  and systems  (research  studies,  EHR data,  health  economic   analysis,  drug  usage  information,  market  research,  clinical  data,  social  media  and search  data ) to be  transformed  into actionable  insights .    Though the Sentinel system achieved it to a significant extent, one of the major limitations  is its limited  effectiveness in detecting unc ommon diseases or diseases that occur outside its catchment areas of the  sentinel sites. To resolv e this and other challenges, USFDA has Sentinel System – Five-Year Strategy  2019 -2023  that outlines the challenges and action plan which aims at enhancing and  expanding the  Sentinel System’s foundation, including data, infrastructure, operations, and techn ology. All this to  augment its safety analysis capabilities using advances in data science and signal detection and to  accelerate access to and broaden the us e of real -world data for real -world evidence. [ 11]  6. Where is the challenge?   Collecting medicinal da ta globally  to study  drug safety across the borders needs technology along with  awareness . Timely r eview of incoming data and real -time signal detection can provide important safety  information for healthcare providers.   7. Technology   Pharmaceutical companies need to follow a wide range of processes to ensure their pharmacovigilance  is up to standards. When  a system is built on unguided evaluation of big data, active signal detection is  exposed to the inherent risks of false positive and false negative findings. [ 11]  The vast diversity  in safety  repo rting  across  the globe  is apparent  with  some  countries  using  E2B  gateway , portal  entry  and email,  while  some  are using traditional  methods  of courier  or hand  delivery   for paper  reporting  or electronic  reporting  by the compact  disc.  This pandemic  highlight  how  electronic   or paperless  reporting  is the most  effective  reporting  method.    8. Collaboration   Sharing and collaboration both within and beyond our pharmacovigilance community esp ecially   supporting pharmacovigilance colleagues in lower -income countries, will  be integral. Bringing many  different stakeholders onboard building and coordination among members of the WHO program for  international drug monitoring is vital. [4]   5 www.clinchoice.com  Collaboration with other scientific organizations emphasizes the importance of  spontaneous as a source  of real-world data. Combining da ta from spontaneous databases with real -time observational studies  using technology and networking with other sources like EHR, insurance cl aims can allow more efficient  evidence generation to explore any medicines safety issues that arise. [8]  Collaboration is important because when NIPs and NRAs fail to work with each other when developing  national AEFI or ADR surveillance systems, it leads t o duplication of effort a nd a failure to capture all  relevant data in one central repository. In addition, potential crises may go undetected through such  confusion and this becomes an additional barrier for reporting AEFIs and ADRs [ 12].   Effective collab oration was noted in Canada with PHAC and public health authorities during the 2009  influenza pandemic  in identify ing a higher than normal rate o f anaphylaxis linked to one lot (Lot 7A) of  a newly released adjuvanted H1N1 flu vaccine.  [13]  9. Prioritizatio n  Every time there is a mass administration of a drug or vaccine, you need to monitor in real -time, which  helps to report any problems as quickly as possible. Prioritizing  ICSR processing as per the need of the  hour with clinical trial (serious and non -serious) cases for products developed/tested for pandemic takes  the highest priority.  Prioritize products with significant risk minimization programs like Pregnancy  prevention programs vs. provision of educational materials. Deprioritize RMPs for established products  without additional pharmacovigilance or risk minimization measures.  Delay determination of any  corrective actions until the pandemic is declared over by WHO or capacity is back to normal and stable.  During  pandemics  having  a dedicated  safety  intel ligence  team  enables  an established  communication   channel  with  authorities , to have  proactive  communication  with  regulatory  agencies  to arrange   alternative  measures  and actions  instantly .  10. Harmonization   Do all countries have systems for monitoring vaccine s afety in place? International sharing of data from  post -marketing surveillance will be vital in guiding risk -benefit assessments and determining whether  changes in vaccination policies are needed. To improve collaboration, it is suggested that creating an  electronic platform to quickly share trusted information with healthcare professionals. Also,   consortiums could be useful to allow more rapid and comprehensive sharing of information, particularly  with industry.  [14]  11. Education, training, and communication   During  pandemics  having  a dedicated  safety  intelligence  team  enables  an established  communication   channel  with  authorities  in order  to arrange  alternative  measures  and actio ns instantly .  Effective communication , which needs to be timely, accurate, truthful  should be free and available to  everyone.  Unless the system is well understood and used by health workers at lower levels, there will  be a gross underestimation of reports.  Hence governments and partners should allocate enough  resources to establish a ded icated system and train health workers on the importance of reporting.   Training of local staff on signal detection, including procedures for passive and active surveillance and  communicat ing the importance and use of reporting tools is essential as there i s not enough training  done at the clinic level.   There has been a desire for clear, up -to-date, and utilized pharmacovigilance regulations on  international forums as well. Sp ecifically, crisis communication plans, active surveillance and causality  assessmen t should be prioritiz ed in terms of the global vaccine safety initiative’s technical support,  training, resources and sharing of information. [15]   6 www.clinchoice.com  To boost pandemic -related signal detection activities focus should be on certain key locations wh ere  large am ounts of data can be gathered, analysed , and extrapolated for a broader investigation. An  Increase in the availability of training  (like e -learning modules) could  help to improve the quality of both  inputs and analysis , according to experts.   Patient safety  can improve only when a culture of pharmacovigilance is encouraged . The European  Union’s innovative medicines initiative WEB -RADR project has brought two digital tools for  pharmacovigilance: mobile applications (apps) for reporting the adverse  effects of drugs and social  media data for its contribution to safety signalling . The Med Safety App is designed for healthcare  professionals a nd also the  patients to report suspected ADRs directly to the national centre . The app is  built on  ICH E2B(R2) m essaging standard  and the ICSRs can be transferred directly to a national  database.  [16]  The competence in a country for data analytics and inte rpretation  is important because  when there is  data but no idea what to do with it , then the data is of no use . Hence the p romot ion of  understanding,  education and clinical training in pharmacovigilance and effective communication of its surveillance role  to the public  is important . To impr ove patient safety worldwide, pharmacovigilance cannot exist in a  vacuum.   References   1. https://www.who.int/news -room/spotlight/ten -thre ats-to-global -health -in-2019 accessed on 19 -OCT-2019 .  2. Pandemic report and lessons learn ed Outcome of the European Medicines Agency's activities during the 2009  (H1N1) flu pandemic. 29 April 2011 EMA/221017/2011 Patient Health Protection.   https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/report/pandemic -report -lessons -learned -outcome -european - medicines -agencys -activities -during -2009 -h1n1 -flu_en.pdf   3. The COVID -19 vaccine development landscape. Tung  Thanh Le, Zacharias  Andreadakis, Arun  Kumar, Raúl  Gómez  Román, Stig  Tollefsen, Melanie  Saville and Stephen  Mayhew. Nature reviews Drug discovery, volume 19, may   2020,305 -306  https://www.nature.com/articles/d41573 -020-00073 -5  4. https://www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/novel -coronavirus -2019/global -research -on-novel -coronavirus - 2019 -ncov/solidarity -clinical -trial-for-covid -19-treatments. accessed 10 OCT 2020   5. The Role of  Pharmacovigilance and  ISoP During the  Global COVID -19 Pandemic. Rebecca E  C, Deirdre  M C, Jean  C D, Mira  H W. Drug Safety (2020) 43:511 –512   https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih .gov/pmc/articles/PMC7203700/   6. The Impact of  the COVID -19 “Infodemic” on  Drug -Utilization Behaviors: Implications for  Pharmacovigilanc e.  Marco  Tuccori1,2· Irma  Convertino2· Sara  Ferraro2  · Emiliano  Cappello2  · Giulia  Valdiserra2  · Daniele  Focosi3  ·  Corrado  Blandizzi1. Drug Safety (2020) 43:699 –709  https://osf.io/zt5fv/download?format=pdf   7. European Strategy for Influenza A/H1N1 Vaccine Benefit -Risk Monitoring. The European Me dicines Agency (EMEA)  The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) The Heads of Medicines Agencies (HMA). OCT  2009   https://www.ema .europa.eu/en/documents/report/european -strategy -influenza/h1n1 -vaccine -benefit -risk- monitoring_en.pdf   8. Information Exchange system. Alert No 124. A/H1N1 vaccination safety: new safety surveillance tool available. 08 - OCT-2009, Q SM/MC/IEA.124.   https://www.who.int/medicines/publications/drugal erts/Alert_124_AH1N1.PDF   9. http s://www.ema.europa.eu/en/news/ema -starts -first-rolling -review -covid -19-vaccine -eu accessed on 27 -OCT - 2020   10. https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/news/ema -starts -secon d-rolling -review -covid -19-vaccine   accessed on 27 -OCT-2020   11. https://www.fda.gov /media/120333/download . Sentinel system -five-year strategy. 2019 -2023. January 2019   12. https://vaccine -safety -training.org/nras -role-in-the-regulation -of-drug -safety.html accessed on 28 -OCT-2020    7 www.clinchoice.com  13. https://vaccine -safety -training.org/interactions -between -aefi-and-adr-surveillance -systems.html accessed on 28 - OCT-2020   14. Global vaccine safety blueprint 2.0 background r esearch. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2019  (WHO/MVP/EMP/SAV/2019.03). License: CC BY -NC-SA 3.0 IGO.   https://www.who.int/vaccine_safety/gvs_blueprint -consultation/en/   15. https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/human -regulatory/overview/public -health -threats/cor onavirus -disease -covid - 19/g uidance -medicine -developers -other -stakeholders -covid -19 (accessed on 22 -OCT -2020)   16. CE Pierce, “Recommendations on the Use of Mobile Applications for the Collection and Communication of  Pharmaceutical Product Safety Information: L essons from IMI WEB -RADR,” D rug Safety, 2019.   https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s40264 -019-00813 -6    Author’s Profile   Sowmya H Reddy   Senior executive Pharmacovigilance at  ClinChoice   With the awareness of GVP modules and understandi ng of  the relevant guidelines, Sowmya  is engaged in activities  involved in ICSR processing. She had been invo lved in receipt  of ICSR, triage, case creation (including MedDRA coding) and  peer revi ew. To ensure meeting of regulatory compliance  and service level agreements, she is also involved activities  related to awareness of company procedures and guidelines.   About ClinChoice Inc   ClinChoice , formerly FMD K&L, is a global clinical stage Contract R esearch Organization ('CRO'), with  over 1800 clinical research professionals in seven different countries across North America, Asia, and  Europe. Under its new brand, ClinChoice w ill continue to offer high quality, full -service clinical  development solutio ns to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device, consumer, and personal care  product companies globally.   www.clinchoice.com    info@clinchoice.com            


 
https://clinchoice.com/resources/
https://clinchoice.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/Tailored-Functional-Service_whitepaper.pdf
1Formerly FMD K&L Tailored Functional   Service Provider Models   Fill Critical Gaps and  Enhance WorkﬂowsWHITEPAPER2 Contents 1   What is a Functional Service   Provider (FSP) Model? 2   Functional Service Provider  Characteristics 3   Choosing the Right FSP Model  a.  Staﬀ Augmentation Model  b. Managed Staﬃng Model  c.  Full Outsourcing FSP Model  d. Hybrid Model 4   Key Outcomes of ClinChoice   FSP Models3 3 4 5 5 6 6 73Biopharmaceutical companies have a constant need for speciﬁc functional services, such as clinical  data services, that o/f_ten pose signiﬁcant challenges due to dramatically ﬂuctuating workloads, costs,  and risks. An FSP model enables drug makers to eﬃciently respond to market needs and rapidly change  course while maintaining a consistent pool of highly qualiﬁed professionals that can easily scale to meet  a client’s exact needs at any time, for as long as necessary. An FSP model can be extraordinarily ﬂexible, removing the burden of employment and many day-to-day  management requirements while enhancing overall strategic control and direct integration within your  business functions. Companies have the ﬂexibility to choose the service they intend to outsource, and  this choice can be based on ﬁnancial components, lack of internal technical expertise, and other needs  within the organization. Additionally, companies can quickly pivot within an FSP model as needs change,  which o/f_ten happens during pipeline development. With an FSP model, companies need not have their existing technical teams concentrate on only one  activity, which would take away their involvement from other core business activities. Rather, the FSP  can address this work through their technical team, while the biopharmaceutical companies still retain  control of the data and output. In this whitepaper, we examine the characteristics of various FSP models and how they help bring   new therapies to market faster and cost-eﬀectively. The primary purpose of an FSP model is to utilize outsourcing as a means to manage resources and  capacity in what can be a highly ﬂuid environment. The costs of maintaining staﬀ can be signiﬁcant,   and an FSP allows for more eﬀective and cost-eﬃcient management of resources. In addition to  eﬀective resource management, an FSP can be tailored, allowing a sponsor to retain any amount of  control they desire through the use of their own processes and systems, ensuring consistency across  resources, and mitigating risks typically associated with disruption.What is a Functional Service  Provider (FSP) Model? Functional Service   Provider Characteristics 4While FSP approaches have common characteristics, they can be tailored to meet individual client  requirements. Whether a short- or long-term contract, staﬀ augmentation model, managed staﬃng  model, full outsourcing model, or any combination of these strategies, ClinChoice tailors FSP models to  suit your unique requirements and ﬁll operational gaps in areas such as biometrics, pharmacovigilance,  regulatory operations, project management, and site monitoring functional services. Our FSP models  drive additional beneﬁts over time by fostering long-term relationships through shared process building,  expertise, and trust. Flexible, long-term FSP models oﬀer the frameworks for innovation and continuous  process improvement to reduce research costs and timelines for important therapies. When considering whether to deploy a speciﬁc FSP model or a hybrid of multiple, there are several  questions to consider when identifying the best model: •  What are the business needs and the scope?  •  What is the anticipated volume and length of needed resource? •  What level of control of deliverables do you wish to maintain? •  What level of expertise is already available in-house?Choosing the Right FSP ModelThis highly collaborative partnership oﬀers robust ﬂexibility, where the FSP can deliver completely  customized solutions to each client. It is a scalable model according to changing resource requirements.  Clients may resource departments or individuals in real-time without needing lengthy hiring   processes with the added risk of jeopardizing project timelines. Characteristics of a successful   FSP model may include: •   Provides a single functional service to a sponsor, o/f_ten across multiple programs, to maximize resource  utilization and eﬃciencies •  Enables long-term relationships that develop greater eﬃciencies over time •  CRO works according to sponsor SOPs and systems if requested •  Flexibility to make the impossible possible •   Risk mitigation of employee turnover and business continuity are managed by FSP, including managing  the additional hiring and training cost •   FSP can help companies to expand their footprint in new countries/regions by oﬀering to carry out the  services in low-cost centers without compromising quality •   Possibility for the companies to convert their ﬁxed cost into variable cost, amounting to good  operational savings5•  What is the capacity of in-house resources to manage contracted resources? •  What is the overall corporate vision for the resourcing of the particular function? Staff Augmentation Model With the staﬀ augmentation model, ClinChoice provides immediate resources to clients globally.   Our experts become an extension of your team, working to your processes and environment. •  Immediate staﬃng support provided by individuals with the necessary skills or experiences. •   Staﬃng support can be located either remote or on site at client location, dependent on client   and complexity of required support. •  Dedicated FTEs working as part of the client’s team. •  Utilization of sponsor processes and systems. •  Sponsor retains control of all deliverables and work assignments. •   Provides the opportunity to leverage speciﬁc CRO expertise in response to changing dynamics   via consultancy design. •  Cost-eﬀective for high-level scope change requirements. For example, many biopharma companies choose to develop in-house biometrics capabilities but   still require cost-eﬀective support and experienced personnel to integrate immediately into their team.  Through the use of a staﬀ augmentation model, ClinChoice fully aligns with a client’s procedures and may  even provide staﬀ for on-site work. Our experts ﬁll in any gaps as a seamless extension of your own team. Managed Staﬃng Model The managed staﬃng model provides skilled staﬀ and experienced management who oﬀer functional  oversight that enhances study development while working within the sponsor’s system and processes.  Managed staﬃng models are most o/f_ten deployed into functional areas to better support larger  volumes, such as clinical monitoring, data management, programming, etc.  •  CRO provides experienced line managers provide functional, unit-based oversight. •  Client retains overall oversight, leadership, and control of all deliverables. •  Renewable resourcing capabilities. For example, when a client needs biometrics professionals to handle their clinical trial programs,  ClinChoice’s managed staﬃng model provides them with the experts they need for a contracted length  of time. Headcounts are calculated based on the work scope and approved by clients. Beyond that, the  day-to-day functions of these specialists can either be in the client’s hands or managed by ClinChoice,  depending on the need. Salary payments, beneﬁts, employment status, and performance management  are all conveniently and cost-eﬀectively handled by ClinChoice, freeing up additional client resources.6System requirements, SOP requirements, and training requirements can all be tailored to the client’s  needs with the same result of timely, quality deliverables. Full Outsourcing Model In clinical development, the Outsourcing Model gives biopharmaceutical companies the ﬂexibility to  contract out full or partial aspects of a speciﬁc function or functions to ClinChoice. The Full Outsourcing  Model is a single-source solution for managing functional needs through a dedicated partnership. •  Versatile resource allocation. •  Expertise in project delivery. •  Optimal, cost-eﬀective workﬂows. •  Can utilize CRO systems, technology, and processes for clients who require them. •  Sponsor systems and/or processes may be used. •  Allows for realization of geographic eﬃciency of scale for smaller clients. •  CRO ensures team members are fully trained and proﬁcient. •  CRO assumes more risk. A Full Outsourcing Model can range from one or two employees to teams of 50 or 100+. These  partnerships can be contracted on an FTE level, a deliverable (unitized) level, or a combination of both.   In these partnerships, the CRO takes responsibility for delivering individual projects on time and budget. Hybrid FSP Model ClinChoice’s Hybrid Model allows for any combination of models to meet the client’s needs. It oﬀers   the ﬂexibility and agility to deliver on project goals when you need additional support as part of an  ongoing service. •  Leverage, ﬂexibility, and agility to deliver on project goals. •  Provide resources across a program as required. •  Access to ClinChoice SOPs and global SMEs. Wherever there is a resource shortage for a particular expertise or skill set, and you need immediate  implementation for any budget, ClinChoice provides the right talent to cater precisely to the business  needs. It is an easily scalable solution that oﬀers signiﬁcant cost savings in hiring, processing salary,  beneﬁts, and other employee needs.7•  Continuously develop new eﬃciencies in all biometrics functions and sharing •  Eﬃcient ramp-up with exceptional talent mapping capabilities •  Increased control and oversight over deliverables •  Increased control over recruiting costs •  Increased quality assurance •  Reduced sponsor oversight over contractors and other resources •  Reduced risk of underutilization •  Reduced administrative burdens •  Cost-eﬀective contract rates •  Measurable quality and speed improvements •  Access to CRO insights and recommendations An FSP is what you make it. It can provide one speciﬁc function for a speciﬁc amount of time or continue  to evolve to meet your strategic direction. FSPs let you keep as much control over resources as you need  or want. ClinChoice delivers quality staﬀ who oﬀer exceptional technical skills, work ethic, and a drive to  succeed. With the right FSP, you get a consistent, fully integrated resource that understands your SOPs  and systems and is committed to appreciating your company culture, vision, and values.Key Outcomes of  ClinChoice FSP Models ClinChoice’s Proven Formula for Success RECORD OF  QUALITYFLEXIBLE  APPROACHDEDICATED  PEOPLEFAST  TIMELINESBROAD TA  EXPERTISE 8Discuss FSP models   with us today. clinchoice.com info@clinchoice.com About ClinChoice Inc ClinChoice, formerly FMD K&L, is a global clinical stage Contract  Research Organization (CRO), with over 2000 clinical research  professionals in seven diﬀerent countries across North America,  Asia, and Europe. ClinChoice has been a leading provider of contract  research services oﬀering high-quality solutions to pharmaceutical,  biotechnology, medical device and consumer products customers  for the past 25 years, working across a wide array of service  functions and therapeutic areas. Under its new brand, ClinChoice  continues to oﬀer high-quality, full-service clinical development  and commercial solutions to pharmaceutical, biotechnology,  medical device, and consumer product companies globally.   For our partners, it means a reliable partner and quality results.ClinChoice is a leading global Contract Research Organization (CRO),  with over 4000 clinical research professionals across North America, Asia, and Europe.  For more than 25 years, ClinChoice has been providing high-quality contract research  services to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device, and consumer products  clients, encompassing a broad range of services and therapeutic areas. ClinChoice  oﬀers cutting-edge, full-service solutions for Clinical Trials, Regulatory Aﬀairs, Medical  Device Safety, Toxicology, and Medical Aﬀairs.


 
https://clinchoice.com/resources/
Resources | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Resources Resources All Resources Whitepaper Case Study Blog Press Release eBook Newsletter Whitepaper Modernization of Cosmetics Regulation ... This whitepaper outlines the shift in cosmetics oversight by the U.S. FDA. Download Newsletter Regulatory Intelligence of Cosmetics O... Regulatory Intelligence of Cosmetics for October through December of 2023. Download Newsletter Regulatory Newsletter Oct – Dec ... Learn about Regulatory updates from Q4 2023 in this newsletter by ClinChoice. Download Newsletter Regulatory Intelligence of Cosmetics J... Regulatory Intelligence of Cosmetics for January through December of 2023. Download Press Release ClinChoice Acquires CSI, Expanding its... Shanghai, China; Philadelphia, USA; and Singapore, January 12, 2024 – ClinChoice, a leading global Contract Research Organization (CRO), today announced expanding its global footprint with the acquisition of CSI Medical Research (CSI). CSI is a regional clinical CRO with professional staff and partners located across Southeast Asia (SEA), Australia and New Zealand (ANZ), to provide … Continued Read Whitepaper The EU Clinical Trials Regulation This paper provides changes and updates to Clinical Trials Regulation in the EU as of December 2023. Download Newsletter Regulatory Intelligence of Cosmetics J... Regulatory Intelligence of Cosmetics for July through September of 2023. Download Blog Custom-Made Medical Devices: Are You C... The world is progressing rapidly with advanced technologies and customization in almost every sector to meet human needs. In the healthcare sector, manufacturers of medical devices are actively involved in developing individualized products based on a patient’s needs. In some instances, over-the-counter/mass-produced medical devices, especially implantable devices, may not meet the specific patient’s requirements. Hence, … Continued Read Blog Project FrontRunner: Advantages in dir... Project FrontRunner is an Oncology Center of Excellence (OCE) initiative that encourages sponsors to consider when it is appropriate to develop new cancer drugs for advanced or metastatic disease in an earlier clinical setting. Currently clinical trials are designed to include patients who have run out of treatment options and are in their late stage … Continued Read Blog Informed Consent: Guidance for IRBs, C... In August of 2023, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) released a final guidance document that serves to assist Institutional Review Boards (IRBs), Investigators and Sponsors in their roles and responsibilities related to the Informed Consent process. This document serves as a finalization to the FDA’s draft guidance issued in July 0f 2014 entitled “Informed … Continued Read Blog New EU MDR compliance dates: Impact as... MDR transition Regulation (EU) 2017/745 on medical devices (MDR) has replaced the dated Medical Device Directive 93/42/EEC (MDD) to help increase overall compliance and standards for the quality and safety of medical devices marketed in the EU as well as to raise public awareness and ensure continuous monitoring of product safety and performance throughout the … Continued Read Newsletter Regulatory Intelligence of Cosmetics A... Regulatory Intelligence of Cosmetics for April through June of 2023. Download Whitepaper Safety Assessment of E-Cigarettes in t... This whitepaper outlines safety requirements and key considerations in exposure assessments, hazard identification and risk assessments for e-cigarettes in the EU. Download Whitepaper Safety Assessment of E-Cigarettes in t... This whitepaper outlines safety and risk assessments as well as literature monitoring for e-cigarettes in the US. Download Press Release ClinChoice Partners with Anju to Simpl... Ft. Lauderdale, FL June 26, 2023 – Anju Software, a leading life science technologies provider, announced that ClinChoice is expanding its footprint with TrialMaster and Anju’s eClinical Suite. The partnership allows ClinChoice to deliver a full suite of cost-efficient and adaptable eClinical solutions providing impactful insights and accelerated results. “With our acquisition of Cromsource, we … Continued Read Blog Our one-of-a-kind FSP Capabilities Functional Service Provider (FSP) models can enhance workflows while speeding up timelines and remaining cost-effective. ClinChoice has over 27 years of experience helping customers find the FSP model that’s right for them. Watch this video to learn more and talk with a specialist today to find a flexible FSP model that fits your current needs. … Continued Read Blog First Time Into Medical Writing for Me... New Intern (NI): Hello, Senior Medical Writer – today’s my first day! I’m really excited to know the skills one needs to acquire for writing related to medical devices! Senior Medical Writer (SMW): That’s great, and welcome! We’re happy to have you, and I hope I can answer any questions you might have. But I … Continued Read Press Release ClinChoice Acquires CROMSOURCE, Expand... Philadelphia, USA; Shanghai, China; and Verona, Italy. March 01, 2023 – ClinChoice Medical Development is pleased to announce its acquisition of CROMSOURCE S.r.l., an ISO-certified full-service contract research organization with its corporate headquarters in Verona, Italy and its US headquarters in Cary, NC. CROMSOURCE has operational subsidiaries in the US and seven countries throughout Western … Continued Read eBook Considerations for Combination Product... Combination Products are medical products comprised of two or more differently regulated constituent parts. They have many types of usage. For instance, some drug-device combinations, such as metered-dose inhalers, are used to ensure the proper dosage of self-administrated medicines outside the clinical environment. Download eBook Gut Microbiota: A Disregarded Subject ... The microbiome is coevolved in humans and healthy individuals. The microbiome is said to be in the symbiosis or eubiosis state, in which the microbiome is intact with its functions, such as digestion and absorption of food and xenobiotics, eliciting the immune response, protecting the body from external microorganisms, and producing the essential metabolites required … Continued Download Blog EMA and US FDA requirements for non-cl... Pertaining to the radiodiagnostic agents, there are few changes in the non-clinical requirements between the EMA (European Medical Agency) (EMA/CHMP/SWP/686140/2018) [1] and US FDA (United States Food and Drug Administration) (Docket Number: FDA-2017-D-5297, Document ID: FDA-2017-D-5297-0007) [2]. The requirements are not the same between them; therefore, for someone who needs to register a product through … Continued Read Blog Rare Disease: An Overview of STXBP1 STXBP1 is a gene that encodes a specific protein called MUNC18-1 which is essential for synaptic transmission1. The MUNC18-1 protein is a key protein that helps organize the SNARE-complex which is responsible for mediating vesicle fusion with the cell membrane or other vesicles2. A mutation in the STXBP1 gene can result in impairment of psychomotor … Continued Read Blog Raising the standard of excellence in ... ClinChoice is a CDISC registered solutions provider and a CDISC platinum member with a long history working alongside CDISC. As an early adopter and contributor to CDISC standard development, ClinChoice ensures your clinical data is fully validated and submission ready. Our extensive knowledge and active participation in the field drives efficiency and accuracy while submitting … Continued Read Blog Clinical Trials in Rheumatoid Arthriti... An autoimmune inflammatory disorder, Rheumatoid arthritis (RA), develops when the body’s immune system attacks healthy cells, resulting in inflammation. RA mainly affects the joints, usually more than one joint simultaneously. As a shock absorber for joints, RA damages the cartilage by uncontrolled inflammation. The result is deformed joints over time. Finally, the bone itself starts … Continued Read Blog Pharmacovigilance: Literature Monitori... Safe and effective use of health products is a key objective of pharmacovigilance. Information is provided about the safety of these substances to patients, healthcare providers, and the general public as soon as possible. Pharmacovigilance includes reviewing the development, management, and introduction of pharmaceuticals. It is probably the most tightly regulated part of the pharmaceutical … Continued Read Blog Regulatory Submission of Generic Drugs... The development of a generic drug is very different from that of an innovative drug with a novel chemical composition. It must be sufficiently comparable to the latter to determine whether a generic drug is therapeutically equivalent to an innovator product. To be market-effective, drug companies must develop generic drugs that achieve the same level … Continued Read Blog What’s it like working for ClinC... ClinChoice strives to set the Standard of Excellence, but such ambition is not achieved alone. The largest contributors to ClinChoice’s success are the people that help support the company’s mission. Watch now and take a look at why ClinChoice’s longstanding employees value the company just as much as ClinChoice values them. Read Press Release ClinChoice Raises $150 mm Series E Rou... ClinChoice Raises $150 mm Series E Round Financing, Further Strengthening its Global Services Capabilities PHILADELPHIA, July 5, 2022 /PRNewswire/ — Recently, ClinChoice announced the successful completion of its $150 mm Series E round financing. The investment was led by Legend Capital, and co-invested by Taikang Life Insurance, Sherpa Healthcare Partners and existing shareholders, including Lilly Asia Ventures and Apricot … Continued Read Blog DIA 2022 Recap After many months of planning and anticipation, DIA 2022 in Chicago finally arrived. For the first time in over 2 years, colleagues, partners, and friends gathered at the Drug Information Association conference in person. And then, seemingly in the blink of an eye, the conference was over! Here are some key takeaways from ClinChoice: Technology: … Continued Read Blog Leveraging Technology Effectively in C... Clinical research is a rapidly evolving field. As technologies improve and advanced capabilities become accessible, new tools, methodologies, and processes also emerge. Depending on the area of research, size, target demographics, and other factors, these new technologies can help improve efficiency, accuracy, speed, and the quality of data gathered and analyzed. A key element of … Continued Read Case Study Optimizing Direct-to-Patient Supply Ma... Explore ways to improve the efficacy of clinical trials with new direct-to-patient supply management solutions in this case study. Download Press Release ClinChoice Names Calyx Preferred Partn... Depth and diversity of Calyx scientific and technical teams’ experience extended to ClinChoice’s worldwide clients NOTTINGHAM, England and MORRISVILLE, N.C., March 7, 2022 /PRNewswire/ — Calyx, the eClinical and Regulatory solutions and services provider relied on for solving complex data challenges in clinical research, today announced it has been named a preferred provider of medical … Continued Read Blog Rare Diseases How rare are rare diseases? The Orphan Drug Act defines a rare disease as a disease or condition that affects less than 200,000 people in the United States. Read Blog Why should programmers join ClinChoice... We have a diverse client base who develop lifechanging medical devices, vaccines, and other products. Our enriching work environment offers programmers exposure to a wide range of clients, scientific areas, geographic settings, and a highly talented, multicultural team. Watch now to learn more about our industry-leading team, exceptional leadership, remote or hybrid work model, and … Continued Read Blog What is the vision of the Biometrics B... With the backing of exciting new investors, ClinChoice is charting a new course that combines our expertise and ambition to aid the continuous development and monitoring of new drugs, devices, and vaccines. Listen to Mahesh Mudnur – President, Asia-Pacific, and Sridhar Punniamurthi – Director, Statistical Programming, as they share their vision for the Biometrics group in 2022. Read Blog Improving Data & Analysis Operati... This past week, ClinChoice participated in the Outsourcing Clinical Trials conference in Boston as a Sponsor. Read Blog What makes Clinchoice successful? People have always been the cornerstone of success at ClinChoice. Led by strong leadership that gives a depth of experience and direction to advancements, we prepare the next generation of leaders to take on new challenges with skill and integrity. Mahesh Mudnur – President, Asia-Pacific, elaborates on how ClinChoice has been successful for the last 26 years. … Continued Read Blog How do we engage with our clients? For over 26 years, ClinChoice has been proudly providing deep insights that help leading medical device and life sciences manufacturers bring lifechanging products to market. Mahesh Mudnur, President – Asia-Pacific, and Sridhar Punniamurthi, Director – Statistical Programming, expand on how we focus on our client’s needs and deliver projects on time with quality. Watch now to learn … Continued Read Blog Get to know ClinChoice In this brief video, Mahesh Mudnur, President – Asia-Pacific, delves into ClinChoice’s past and present. With centers in China, the US, Philippines, and Japan, and over 2200 professionals worldwide, our agility compliments our culture of client service and success. Watch now to learn about our commitment to reliable partnerships and providing deep domain experience in … Continued Read Whitepaper Preparing FDA Submission Data Packages This paper describes the evolution of data standards and recommends best practices in planning and preparing FDA submission packages. Download Whitepaper ClinChoice PV Facing Pandemic Whitepap... This whitepaper describes the role of pharmacovigilance in our modern world and the need for evolution in drug safety data collection. Download Whitepaper Tailored Functional Service Whitepaper This whitepaper examines the characteristics of various FSP models and how they help bring new therapies to market faster and cost-effectively. Download Whitepaper Review of QA on regulations for Custom... This review explores questions and considerations around custom-made, adaptable, and patient-matched medical devices. Download Blog Answering Questions Surrounding Custom... Technological advancements in manufacturing make it possible for manufacturers to commercially produce personalized custom medical devices (CMD) much faster. The advancements, when coupled with regulatory changes, can be confusing. That’s why we’ve created this brief review to help clarify the most critical points within recent European Medical Device Regulation (MDR) updates. MDR Article 2(3) defines … Continued Read Case Study Cancer Hospital of China Academy of �... This case study shows a real-world example of ClinChoice implementing FSP staff augmentation for a pharmaceutical client. Download Press Release ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development ... ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center – Expanding its North American Capabilities PHILADELPHIA and SHANGHAI, July 22, 2021 /PRNewswire/ — ClinChoice, a leading global, midsize, and rapidly growing contract research organization (CRO) focused on the delivery of superior quality, highly efficient, and effective clinical research services across the development continuum in Pharmaceutics, Vaccines, Medical Devices, Consumer … Continued Read Load More Please fill out this form to unlock your download Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/request-for-information/
Request For Information | ClinChoice This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Request for Information Request For Information Thank you for your interest in ClinChoice services. To receive more information or to request a proposal, please complete this form. All information will be used for ClinChoice purposes only and will be kept confidential. You may attach documents in doc, pdf, ppt, txt, xls, zip formats. Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/careers/
Careers | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Careers Careers Since our founding, ClinChoice has been on an accelerated growth path. Our employees range from seasoned professionals to recent graduates, sharing values plus exemplary academic backgrounds, strong experience within our domain, and the drive to fulfill their passions. Because our work is important to both our clients and the patients they serve, we’re committed to building a highly motivated team, dedicated to delivering quality to all stakeholders. Join the Team See Open Positions Globally Don’t see a position that’s right for you? Let us know what type of position would interest you so we can contact you when the opportunity comes along! Join our Talent Community Working at ClinChoice You’ll have opportunities to make a real difference We provide compensation and benefits in line with your talent, market standards, and industry best practices. We also provide challenging career opportunities with rewards commensurate to your success. You can be an entrepreneur exploring the unexplored We nurture a free and fearless environment in which teams drive innovation and venture beyond traditional limits. We give you the space to create better ways to deliver results and enhance quality of life worldwide. You’ll work in a challenging and rewarding environment We provide compensation and benefits in line with your talent, market standards, and industry best practices. We also provide challenging career opportunities with rewards commensurate to your success. You’ll be encouraged to be creative We not only appreciate creative, novel thinking, but also encourage colleagues to share extraordinary ideas without fear of failure. Innovative ideas help us define business strategies and visualize our future. You’ll have some fun along the way We encourage our colleagues to break the monotony of work and have some fun. This can bring out hidden talents and creativity. After all, cheer and happiness are what it’s all about. Our Culture at a Glance Free & Fearless Environment Global Projects & Opportunities EEO Compliant Organization Unmatched Quality of Life Growth-Oriented Culture for All Competitive Benefit Packages Diverse & Talented Workforce Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/contact/
Contact Us | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Contact Interested in ClinChoice? More Ways to Get In Touch Phone +1 215-283-6035 General Sales Our Locations ClinChoice Inc. 1300 Virginia Drive, Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 USA Phone: +1 215-283-6035 Fax: +1 215-283-6382 Email: info@clinchoice.com ClinChoice Private Ltd. #729 8th Main 11th Cross J.P. Towers J.P. Nagar 3rd Phase Bangalore – 560-076 Karnataka, India Phone: +91 80 2658 5551 Email: info@clinchoice.com ClinChoice LLC 3 Barbusse, 0028 Yerevan, Armenia Phone: +374-60-541515 Email: europe@clinchoice.com ClinChoice RNo. 420 Fenglin Road Floor 11 Xuhui District Shanghai 430000, China Phone: +86 131 6605 5889 Email: bd@clinchoice.com ClinChoice K.K. THE GATE NIHONBASHI Bld. 3FHigashi Nihonbashi 3-4-1, Chuo-ku Tokyo 104-0031 Japan Phone: +81-3-6228-7360 Email: japan@clinchoice.com ClinChoice Limited Suite G48 268 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 4DX Berkshire, United Kingdom Phone: +44-(0)-1628-566121 Email: europe@clinchoice.com ClinChoice Inc. 17th Floor Wynsum Corporate Plaza 22 F. Ortigas Jr. Road, Ortigas Center Pasig City – 1605 Philippines Phone: +632-8633-5176 Email: info@clinchoice.com ClinChoice Canada Inc. 2 Robert Speck Parkway, Suite 750 Mississauga, Ontario L4Z 1H8, Canada Phone: +1 215-283-6035 Email: info@clinchoice.com Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/
ClinChoice: Full-Service CRO Partner This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources ClinChoice Acquires CSI Medical Research, Expanding its Global Presence Learn More About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Your Full Service Clinical CRO Partner Pharma | Biotech | Med Device | Cosmetics | Consumer Healthcare Learn More Services for the Full Development Lifecycle Accelerating drug and device approvals to market for more than 25 years. Our Solutions Bringing Excellence to Enterprise-Wide Programs and Single-Site Studies Comprehensive Solutions Learn More Broad Therapeutic Expertise Learn More Industry Insights & News Learn More Why Companies of All Sizes Trust Us Record of Quality Flexible Approach Dedicated People Fast Timelines Broad TA Expertise About Us Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/clinchoice-acquires-csi-expanding-its-global-footprint-into-southeast-asia/
ClinChoice Acquires CSI, Expanding its Global Footprint into Southeast Asia - ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » ClinChoice Acquires CSI, Expanding its Global Footprint into Southeast Asia ClinChoice Acquires CSI, Expanding its Global Footprint into Southeast Asia Your download is now available Download January 12, 2024 | By ClinChoice Shanghai, China; Philadelphia, USA; and Singapore, January 12, 2024 – ClinChoice, a leading global Contract Research Organization (CRO), today announced expanding its global footprint with the acquisition of CSI Medical Research (CSI). CSI is a regional clinical CRO with professional staff and partners located across Southeast Asia (SEA), Australia and New Zealand (ANZ), to provide innovative and cost-effective clinical solutions. Through this strategic acquisition, ClinChoice further broadens its global footprint and full-service capabilities in more than 30 countries throughout Asia, Europe and North America around the world. In recent years, the overall environment and infrastructure to support clinical research in Southeast Asia have been significantly improved. With large population, improving economy, maturing regulatory processes and healthcare systems, the SEA has attracted increasing number of biotech and pharmaceutical companies to conduct clinical research and drug development trials in the region. CSI, incorporated in 2017, has quickly grown into a prominent regional CRO with proven track record of executing clinical trials in Southeast Asia. The management team at CSI consists of seasoned clinical research professionals that had worked in some of the biggest names in the industry before establishing CSI. The Company has managed a wide range of clinical trials with their extensive knowledge of local practice, requirements and regulations. ClinChoice, as a global CRO, is dedicated to providing full-service and functional solutions across the entire development lifecycle for pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device, and consumer product companies locally and globally. With over 4,000 professionals worldwide, ClinChoice has established deep regulatory know-how, clinical trial execution and data management capability across all major markets and regions around the world. With the history dating back to 1995, ClinChoice has completed over 1,500 full-service clinical studies across all clinical trial phases and covering all major therapeutic areas. “This is an exciting time for ClinChoice, and we are thrilled to welcome the talented CSI team to the ClinChoice family.” said Mr. Ling Zhen, Global Chairman and CEO of ClinChoice, “With their wide-range of highly valuable service offering and seasoned professional team, the acquisition of CSI will further expand our presence in SEA and ANZ, and enhance our capability to well fulfill our clients’ need locally and globally.” “Joining with ClinChoice is the ideal next chapter in CSI growth story. We are excited to leverage on our familiarity with the SEA and ANZ regulations as well as the clinical sites within a region we called home, to assist more customers to navigate through the challenges with great speed and better cost efficiencies.” said Mr. Nelson Wong, Founder and CEO of CSI Medical Research, “CSI’s vision and mission in the approach to manage clinical trials are very much aligned with ClinChoice, and the company’s high-quality, efficiency and teamwork culture will be fantastic for our talented employees and clients alike. We are very looking forward to what we can achieve together.” Press Release: https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/clinchoice-acquires-csi-expanding-its-global-footprint-into-southeast-asia-302032735.html About ClinChoice ClinChoice is a global clinical CRO dedicated to offering high-quality services to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device, and consumer product companies. These services include Clinical Operations, Project Management, Biostatistics, Data Management, Regulatory Affairs, Medical Affairs, Pharmacovigilance, and other product development services. ClinChoice employs more than 4,000 dedicated professionals in 30 different countries across Asia, Europe and North America around the world. About CSI Medical Research Clinical Solutions Innovating Medical Research aka CSI Medical Research Pte Ltd (CSI) is a clinical focused CRO providing innovative, cost-effective, and efficient clinical solutions in SEA, since 2017. CSI is headquartered at Singapore with professional staff and partners throughout Southeast Asia, Australia and New Zealand. CSI has extensive industry experience and knowledge of local practices, regional ethics, regulatory requirements, and site operations. For media inquiries and requests, please contact: Lisel Wang Sr. Director, Corporate Affairs +86 21 8024 3225 Lisel.wang@clinchoice.com This case study shows a real-world example of ClinChoice implementing FSP... Download ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center - Expanding its North American... View Post This review explores questions and considerations around custom-made, adaptable... Download Want to be the first to know about new blogs and resources? Sign up for our mailing list. Please fill out this form to unlock your download Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/clinchoice-opens-canadian-development/
ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center - Expanding its North American Capabilities - ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center – Expanding its North American Capabilities ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center – Expanding its North American Capabilities Your download is now available Download July 22, 2021 | By ClinChoice ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center – Expanding its North American Capabilities PHILADELPHIA and SHANGHAI, July 22, 2021 /PRNewswire/ — ClinChoice, a leading global, midsize, and rapidly growing contract research organization (CRO) focused on the delivery of superior quality, highly efficient, and effective clinical research services across the development continuum in Pharmaceutics, Vaccines, Medical Devices, Consumer Products, Cosmetics, and Nutraceuticals announced today it will expand its geographic footprint with the opening of a development center in Greater Toronto, Canada. The Toronto center will be the newest hub in ClinChoice’s global service centers joining existing development centers in The United States, Armenia, China, India, Japan, The Philippines, and The United Kingdom. ClinChoice anticipates delivering clinical operations, safety, regulatory, data management, biostatistics, programming, and medical writing services from its facility in Canada. “The Toronto center will provide us with additional access to top tier talent with close-proximity to many of our clients. For over 25 years, ClinChoice has provided excellent clinical development services to many biopharmaceutical companies globally. The resources and talents in Canada will join the more than 2200 ClinChoice employees globally and greatly enhance our commitment to delivering quality and efficient research services to facilitate the development of much needed innovative therapies and products to patients as quickly as possible,” stated, Mr. Ling Zhen, Chairman and Global CEO. About ClinChoice ClinChoice is a clinical CRO dedicated to offering high-quality one-stop service to biopharmaceutical, Vaccine, Medical Device, Cosmetics, Nutraceuticals, and Consumer Products clients. These services include Clinical Operations, Project Management, Biostatistics, Data Management, Regulatory Affairs, Pharmacovigilance, Cosmetovigilance, Device Safety Medial Affairs, Medical Writing, toxicology, innovative and AI based IT solutions and implementation, and other product development and registration services. ClinChoice has development centers across the US, Canada, China, Europe, India, Japan, and The Philippines with more than 2200 dedicated professionals globally. This case study shows a real-world example of ClinChoice implementing FSP... Download This review explores questions and considerations around custom-made, adaptable... Download Technological advancements in manufacturing make it possible for manufacturers... View Post Want to be the first to know about new blogs and resources? Sign up for our mailing list. Please fill out this form to unlock your download Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/pharmacovigilance-literature-monitoring-best-practices/
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/scientific-guideline/guideline-good-pharmacovigilance-practices-module-vi-management-reporting-adverse-reactions_en-0.pdf
  See websites for contact details   European Medicines Agency  www.ema.europa.eu   Heads of Medicines Agencies  www.hma.eu  The European Medicines Agency is   an agency of the European Union        © European Medicines Agency and Heads of Medicines Agencies, 2017.  Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.    8 September 2014   EMA/873138/2011 Rev 1*  (superseded version)   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)   Module VI –  Management and reporting of adverse reactions to medicinal  products  (Rev 1)     Date for coming into effect of first version  2 July 2012  Draft Revision 1* finalised by the Agency in collaboration with Member States  28 May 2013   Draft Revision 1 agreed by ERMS FG  29 May 2013   Draft Revision 1 adopted by Executive Director  6 June 2013  Released for public consultation  7 June 2013  End of consultation (deadline for comments)  5 August 2013  Revised draft Revision 1 finalised by the Agency in collaboration with Member  States  16 July 2014   Revised draft Revision 1 agreed by ERMS FG  31 August 2014   Revised draft Revision 1 adopted by Executive Director as final  8 September 2014   Date for coming into effect of Revision 1   Note: New requirements for non- interventional post- authorisation studies will  become  mandatory for any new study started after 1 January 2015. Implementation for new or  ongoing s tudies started before that date is optional. 16 September 2014     This version is not valid anymore , but kept on the Agency’s website for the purpose of public access to  historical documents. For the valid version, please refer to the Agency’s GVP webpage f or the latest  revision of this GVP Module .  * Note:  Revision 1 contains the following:       - Revisions in VI.A.2.1.1.  (Causality), VI.A.2.4. (Seriousness) ,  VI.B.1.2. (Solicited reports), VI.B.3. (Follow-up of  reports), VI.B.6.3. (Reports of overdose, abuse,  off-label use, misuse, medication error or occupational exposure),  VI.C.1. (Reporting rules for clinical trials and post- authorisation studies in the EU), VI.C.2.2.2. (Solicited reports),   VI.C.6.2.3.7. (Reports of suspected adverse reactions originating f rom organised data collection systems and other  systems) ;    - Clarifications on the clock start for the reporting of valid ICSRs in VI.B.7.;    - Clarifications on the handling of ICSRs when reported in an official language in VI.C.6.2.2.9.;   - Replacements of tables highlighting interim arrangements applicable to marketing authorisation holders in  VI.App.3.1.1. ;    - Correction in VI.C.2.2.9. (Period during a public health emergency).    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 2/90     TABLE OF CONTENTS   VI.A. Introduction  ................................ ................................ .......................  5  VI.A.1. Scope  ................................ ................................ ................................ .............  5  VI.A.2. Terminology ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 5  VI.A.2.1. Adverse reaction  ................................ ................................ ...........................  5  VI.A.2.1.1. Causality  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 5  VI.A.2.1.2. Overdose, off -label use, misuse, abuse, occupational exposure  ........................  6  VI.A.2.2. Medicinal product  ................................ ................................ ..........................  6  VI.A.2.3. Primary source  ................................ ................................ ..............................  7  VI.A.2.4. S eriousness  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 7  VI.A.2.5. Individual case safety report (ICSR)  ................................ ................................  8  VI.B. Structures and processes ................................ ................................ .... 8  VI.B.1. Collection of reports  ................................ ................................ .........................  8  VI.B.1.1. Unsolicited reports  ................................ ................................ .........................  8  VI.B.1.1.1. Spontaneous reports  ................................ ................................ ...................  8  VI.B.1.1.2. Literature reports  ................................ ................................ .......................  9  VI.B.1.1.3. Reports from other sources  ................................ ................................ ..........  9  VI.B.1.1.4. Information on suspected adverse reactions from the internet or digital media  . 10  VI.B.1.2. Solicited reports  ................................ ................................ ..........................  10  VI.B.2. Validation of reports  ................................ ................................ .......................  11  VI.B.3. Follow -up of reports  ................................ ................................ .......................  12  VI.B.4. Data management  ................................ ................................ .........................  13  VI.B.5. Quality management  ................................ ................................ ......................  13  VI.B.6. Special situations  ................................ ................................ ...........................  14  VI.B.6.1. Use of a medicinal product during pregnancy or breastfeeding  ..........................  14  VI.B.6.2. Use of a medicinal product in a paediatric or elderly population  .........................  15  VI.B.6.3.  Reports of overdose, abuse, off -label use, misuse, medication error or occupational  exposure  ................................ ................................ ................................ .................  15  VI.B.6.4. Lack of therapeutic efficacy  ................................ ................................ ..........  16  VI.B.7. Reporting of Individual case safety reports (ICSRs)  ................................ ............  16  VI.B.7.1. Reporting time frames  ................................ ................................ .................  17  VI.B.8. Reporting m odalities  ................................ ................................ .......................  17  VI.C. Operation of the EU network  ................................ .............................  18  VI.C.1. Reporting rules for clinical trials and post -authorisation studies in the EU  ..............  18  VI.C.1.1. Reporting rules for clinical trials  ................................ ................................ .... 19  VI.C.1.2. Reporting rules for non -interventional post -authorisation s tudies, compassionate  use and named patient use  ................................ ................................ ........................  20  VI.C.1.2.1. Non -interventional post -authorisation studies  ................................ ..............  21  VI.C.1.2.2. Comp assionate use and named patient use ................................ ..................  22  VI.C.2. Collection of reports  ................................ ................................ .......................  23  VI.C.2.1. Responsibilities of Member States ................................ ................................ .. 23  VI.C.2.2. Responsibilities of the marketing authorisation holder in the EU  ........................  24  VI.C.2.2.1. Spontaneous reports  ................................ ................................ .................  25  VI.C.2.2.2. Solicited reports  ................................ ................................ .......................  25  VI.C.2.2.3. Case reports published in the scientific literature  ................................ ..........  25   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 3/90     VI.C.2.2.4. Suspected adverse reactions related to quality defect or falsified medicinal  products  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..................  26  VI.C.2.2.5. Suspected transmission via a medicinal product of an infectious age nt ............  27  VI.C.2.2.6. Emerging safety issues  ................................ ................................ ..............  28  VI.C.2.2.7. Period between the submission of the marketing authorisation application  and  the granting of the marketing authorisation  ................................ ................................ . 28  VI.C.2.2.8. Period after suspension, revocation or withdrawal of marketing authorisation  .. 29  VI.C.2.2.9. Period during a public health emergency  ................................ .....................  29  VI.C.2.2.10. Reports from class action lawsuits  ................................ ............................  29  VI.C.2 .2.11. Reports from patient support programmes and market research programmes  29  VI.C.3. Reporting time frames  ................................ ................................ ....................  30  VI.C.4. Report ing modalities  ................................ ................................ .......................  30  VI.C.4.1. Interim arrangements  ................................ ................................ ..................  30  VI.C.4.2. Final arrangements  ................................ ................................ ......................  31  VI.C.5. Collaboration with the World Health Organization and the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction  ................................ ................................ ...........  32   VI.C.6. Electronic exchange of safety information in the EU  ................................ ............  32  VI.C.6.1. Applicable guidelines, definitions, international formats, standards and terminologies  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...........  32   VI.C.6.2. Ele ctronic reporting of individual case safety reports  ................................ ........  33  VI.C.6.2.1. EudraVigilance Database Modules  ................................ ...............................  33  VI.C.6.2.1.1. Adverse reac tion data collected in the EudraVigilance Post -Authorisation  Module  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....................  33  VI.C.6.2.1.2. Adverse reaction data collected in the EudraVigilance Clinical Trial Module  .... 34  VI.C.6.2.2. Preparation of individual case safety reports  ................................ ................  34  VI.C.6.2.2.1. General principles  ................................ ................................ ..................  34  VI.C.6.2.2.2. Information on suspect, interacting and concomitant medicinal products  ...... 35  VI.C.6.2.2.3. Suspected adverse reactions  ................................ ................................ ... 36  VI.C.6.2.2.4. Case narrative, causality assessment and comments  ................................ .. 37  VI.C.6.2.2.5. Test results  ................................ ................................ ...........................  38  VI.C.6.2.2.6. Supplem entary information  ................................ ................................ ..... 38  VI.C.6.2.2.7. Follow -up information  ................................ ................................ .............  38  VI.C.6.2.2.8. What to take into account for data privacy laws  ................................ .........  40  VI.C.6.2.2.9. Handling of languages  ................................ ................................ ............  40  VI.C.6.2.2.10. Nullification of cases  ................................ ................................ .............  40  VI.C.6.2.3. Special situations  ................................ ................................ .....................  41  VI.C.6.2.3.1. Use of a medicinal product during pregnancy or breastfeeding  ....................  41  VI.C.6.2.3.2. Suspected adverse reaction reports published in the scientific literature  ....... 41  VI.C.6.2.3.3. Suspected adverse reactions related to overdose, abuse, off -label use, misuse,  medication  error or occupational exposure  ................................ ................................ ... 42  VI.C.6.2.3.4. Lack of therapeutic efficacy  ................................ ................................ ..... 42  VI.C.6.2.3.5. Suspected adverse reactions relat ed to quality defect or falsified medicinal  products  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..................  43  VI.C.6.2.3.6. Suspected transmission via a medicinal product of an infectious agent  .........  43  VI.C.6.2.3.7. Reports of suspected adverse reactions originating from organised data collection systems and other systems  ................................ ................................ ..........  43   VI.C.6.2.3.8. Receipt of missing minimum information  ................................ ..................  45   Guideline on good pha rmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 4/90     VI.C.6.2.4. Data quality of individual case safety reports transmitted electronically and  duplicate management  ................................ ................................ ..............................  45  VI.C.6.2.5 . Electronic re -transmission of ICSRs between multiple senders and receivers  .... 46  VI.C.6.2.6. Electronic reporting through company’s headquarters  ................................ ... 47  VI.C.6.3. Electronic submission of information on medicinal products  ..............................  47  VI. Appendix 1 Identification of biological medicinal products  ..................  48  VI. Appendix 2 Detailed guidance on the monitoring of scientific literature  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..................  51  VI.App2.1. When to start and stop searching in the scientific literature  ............................  51  VI.App2.2. Where to look ................................ ................................ ...........................  51  VI.App2.3. Database Searches  ................................ ................................ ...................  52  VI.App2.3.1.  Precision and recall  ................................ ................................ ................  52  VI.App2.3.2. Search construction  ................................ ................................ ................  52  VI.App2.3.3. Selection of product terms  ................................ ................................ ...... 52  VI.App2.3.4. Selection of search terms  ................................ ................................ ........  53  VI.App2.3.5. Limits to a search  ................................ ................................ ...................  53  VI.App2.4. Record keeping  ................................ ................................ .........................  54  VI.App2.5. Outputs  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 54  VI.App2.6. Review and selection of articles  ................................ ................................ .. 54  VI.App2.7. Day zero  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 55  VI.App2.8. Duplicates  ................................ ................................ ................................  55  VI.App2.9. Contracting out literature search services  ................................ ....................  55  VI.App2.10. Electronic submission of copies of articles published in the scientific literature  55  VI. Appendix 3 Modalities for reporting  ................................ .....................  60  VI.App3.1. Interim arrangements  ................................ ................................ ...............  60  VI.App3.1.1. Interim arrangements applicable to marketing authorisation holders  ............  66  VI.App3.1.2. Interim arrangements applicable to competent authorities in Member States  . 67  VI.App3.2. Final arrangements  ................................ ................................ ...................  68  VI.App3.2.1. Final arrangements applicable to marketing authorisation holders  ................  71  VI.App3.2.2. Final arrangements applicable to com petent authorities in Member States ..... 71  VI.App3.3. Transmission and rerouting of ICSRs to competent authorities in Member States   ................................ ................................ ................................ ..............................  72  VI. Appendix 4 Transmission of ICSRs to World Health Organization (WHO)  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..................  76  VI. Appendix 5 Nullification of cases  ................................ .........................  80  VI. Appe ndix 6 Data quality monitoring of ICSRs transmitted electronically  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..................  84  VI. Appendix 7 Duplicate detection and management of ICSRs  .................  87     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 5/90     VI.A. Introduction  VI.A.1.  Scope   This Module of GVP addresses the legal requirements detailed in Title IX of Directive 2001/83/EC [DIR ]  and chapter 3 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 [REG] , which are applicable to  competent authorities in   Member States, marketing authorisation holder s and the Agency  as regards the collection, data  management and reporting of suspected adverse reactions  (serious and non -serious) associated with  medicinal products for human use authorised in the European Union ( EU). Recommendations regarding  the reporti ng of emerging safety issues or of suspected adverse reactions occurring in special  situations are also presented in this Module.  The requirements provided in c hapter s IV, V and IX of the  Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 520/2012 [IR] shall be ap plied in this Module.   The guidance provided in this Module does not address the collection, management and reporting of  events or patterns of use, which do not result in suspected adverse reactions  (e.g. asymptomatic  overdose, abuse, off- label use, misuse or medication error) or which do not require to be reported as  individual case safety report or as emerging safety issues. This information may however need to be  collected and presented in p eriodic safety update reports for the interpretation of safety da ta or for the  benefit risk evaluation of medicinal products. In this aspect, guidance provided in Module VII  applies.   All applicable legal requirements  detailed in this Module  are referenced in the way explained in the GVP  Introductory Cover Note and are usually identifiable by the modal verb “shall”. Guidance for the  implementation of legal requirements is provid ed using the modal verb “should”.   VI.A.2. Terminology   The definitions provided in Article 1 of Directive 2001/83/EC  shall be applied for the purpose of this   Module ; of particular relevance are those provided in this Section . Some general principles present ed  in the ICH-E2A and ICH -E2D guidelines  (see GVP Annex IV)  should also be adhered to ; they  are  included  as well in this Section (see GVP Annex I for all definitions applicable to GVP) .   VI.A.2.1. Adverse reaction   An adverse reaction  is a response to a med icinal product which is noxious and unintended  [DIR Art 1].  This includes adverse reactions which arise  from:  • the use of a medicinal product  within the terms of the marketing authorisation ;  • the use outside the terms of the marketing authorisation, includin g overdose, off- label use,  misus e, abuse and medication errors;   • occupational exposure.   VI.A.2.1.1. Causality   In accordance with ICH -E2A (see GVP Annex IV) , the definition of an adverse reaction implies at least  a reasonable possibility of a causal relation ship between a suspected medicinal product and an adverse  event. A n adverse  reaction, in contrast to an adverse event, is characterised by the fact that a causal  relationship between a  medicinal product  and an occurrence is suspected. For regulatory report ing  purposes, as detailed in ICH -E2D (see GVP Annex IV) , if an event is spontaneously reported, even if  the relationship is unknown or unstated, it meets the definition of an adverse reaction. Therefore all   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 6/90     spontaneous reports notified  by healthcare profes sionals1 or consumers2 are considered suspected  adverse reactions, since they convey the suspicions of the primary source s, unless the reporter s  specifically st ate that they believe the event s to be unrelated or that a causal relationship can be  excluded.   VI.A.2.1.2. Overdose,  off-label use, misuse, abuse, occupational exposure   a. Overdose   This refers to the administration of a quantity of a medicinal product given  per administration or  cumulatively , which is above the maximum  recommended dose according to the authorised product  information. Clinical judgement should always be applied.   b. Off-label use   This relates  to situations where the medicinal product is intentionally used  for a medical purpose  not in  accordance with the  authorised  product information.    c. Misuse   This refers to situations where the medicinal product is intentionally and inappropriately  used no t in  accordance with the  authorised  product information.   d. Abuse   This corresponds  to the persistent or sporadic , intentional excessive use of a medicinal product, which  is accompanied by harmful physical or psychological effects [DIR Art 1].   e. Occupational exposure   This refers  to the exposure to a  medicinal product (as defined in [DIR  Art 1]) , as a result of one’s  professional or non -professional occupation.    VI.A.2.2. Medicinal product   A medicinal product is characterised by any substance or combination of substances,   • presented as having properties for treating or preventing disease in human beings; or   • which may be used in or administered to huma n beings either with a view to restoring, correcting  or modifying physiological functions by exerting a pharmacological, immunological or metabolic  action, or to making a medical diagnosis  [DIR Art 1].  In accordance with  Article 107 of Directive 2001/83/EC , the scope of this module is not only applicable  to medicinal products authorised in the EU but also to any such medicinal products commercialised  outside the EU by the same marketing authorisation holder ( see VI.C.2.2 .). Given that  a medicinal  product is authorised with a defined composition,  all the  adverse reactions suspected to be related to  any of the active substance s being part of a  medicinal product authorised in the EU should be managed  in acco rdance with the requirements presented in this module.  This is valid independently  of the  strengths, pharmaceutical forms, routes of administration, presentations, authorised  indications , or  trade names of the medicinal product.   The guidance provided in th is Module also applies , subject to amendments where appropriate,  to  medicinal products supplied in the context of compassionate use  (see VI.C.1.2.2 .) as defined in Article                                                   1 See VI.A.2.3.  for definition of primary source    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 7/90     83(2) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. As the case may be, this guidance may also apply  to named  patient use as defined under Article 5(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC .   VI.A.2.3. Primary source   The primary source  of the information on  a suspected adverse reaction (s) is the person who reports   the facts. Several primary sources, such a s healthcare professional s and/or a consumer , may provide  information  on the same case . In this situation, all the primary sources ’ details , including the  qualifications,  should be provided in the case report , with the “Primary source(s)”  section repeated as  necessary in line  with ICH-E2B(R2)  (see GVP Annex IV)2.   In accordance with the ICH-E2D (see GVP Annex IV) ,  • a healthcare professional is defined as a medically -qualified person such as a physician, dentist,  pharmacist, nurse, coroner  or as otherwise  specified by local regulations;   • a consumer is defined as a person who is not a healthcare professional such as a patient, lawyer,  friend , relative of a patient  or carer .  Medical documentation s (e.g. laboratory or oth er test data) provided by a consumer  that support the  occurrence of the suspected adverse reaction, or which indicate that an  identifiable healthcare  professional  suspects a reasonable possibility of causal relationship between  a medicinal product and  the reported adverse event , are sufficient to consider the spontaneous report as confirmed by a  healthcare professional.   If a consumer initially reports more than one reaction and at least one receives medical confirmation,  the whole report should be documente d as a spontaneous report confirmed by a healthcare  professional and be reported accordingly.  Similarly , if a report is submitted by a medically qualified  patient , friend , relative of the patient or care r, the case should also be considered as a spontaneou s  report confirmed  by a healthcare professional.   VI.A.2.4 . Seriousness   As described in  ICH-E2A (see GVP Annex IV ), a serious adverse reaction corresponds to  any untoward  medical  occurrence that at any dose results in deat h, is life -threatening, requires in patient  hospitalisation or prolongation of  existing hospitalisation, results in persistent or significant disability or  incapacity , or is a congenital anomaly/birth defect.   The characteristics/consequences should  be considered at the time of the reaction  to determin e the  seriousness of a case . For example, life -threatening refers to a reaction in which the patient was at risk  of death at the time of the reaction; it does not refer to a reaction that hypothetically might have  caused death if more severe.   Medical judgement should be exercised in deciding whether other situations should be considered as  serious reactions. Some medical events may jeopardise the patient  or may require an intervention to  prevent one of the above characteristics/consequences. Such  important medical events s hould be  considered as serious3. The EudraVigilance Expert Working Group has co -ordinated the development of  an important medical event (IME) terms list based on the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities  (MedDRA)  (see GVP Annex IV ). This IME list aims to facilitate the classification of suspected adverse  reactions, the analysis of aggregated data and the assessment of the i ndividual case safety reports  (ICSRs) in the frame work of the day -to-day pharmacovigilance activities.  The IME list is intended for                                                   2 See VI.C.6  as regards the electronic reporting of ICSRs  in the EU.   3 Examples are provided in section II.B of ICH -E2A (see GVP Annex IV).    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 8/90     guidance purposes only  and is available  on the EudraVigilance web site4 to stakeholders who wish to  use it for their pharmacovigilance activities . It is regularly updated in line with the  latest version of  MedDRA .  VI.A.2.5. Individual case safety report (ICSR)   This refers to the format and content for the reporting of one or several suspected adverse reactions in  relation to a medicinal product that occur in a single patient at a specific point of time.  A valid ICSR  should  include at least one  identifiable reporter, one  single  identifiable patient, at least one suspect  adverse reaction and at least one  suspect medicinal product .   VI.B. Structures and p rocesses   Section B  of this Module highlights the general principles  in relation to the collection , recording and  reporting of reports of suspected adverse reactions  associated with medicinal products  for human use ,  which are applicable to competent authorities  and marketing authorisation  holders . The definitions and  recommendations provided in VI.A. should be followed.  EU requirements are presented in VI.C..   VI.B.1. Collection  of reports   Competent authorities  and marketing authorisation holders should ta ke appropriate measures in order  to collect  and collate all reports of suspected adverse reaction s associated with medicinal products for  human use originating from unsolicited or solicited sources .   For this purpose, a pharmacovigilance system should be d eveloped to allow the acquisition of sufficient  information  for the scientific evaluation of those reports.   The system should be designed so that it helps to ensure that the collected reports are authentic,  legible, accurate, consistent, verifiable and as complete as possible for their clinical assessment.   All notifications that contain pharmacovigilance data should be recorded  and archived  in compliance  with the applicable data protection requirements  (see VI.C.6.2.2.8 . for EU requirements ).   The system should also be structured  in a way that  allows for  reports of suspected adverse reactions to  be validated (see VI.B.2 .) in a timely manner and exchanged between competent author ities and  marketing authorisation holders within the legal  reporting  time frame (see VI.B.7.1 .).  In accordance with the ICH-E2D (see GVP Annex IV) , two types of safety reports are distinguished in  the post -authorisation phase ; reports originating from unsolicited sources a nd those reported as  solicited .  VI.B.1.1. Unsolicited reports   VI.B.1.1.1. Spontaneous reports   A spontaneous report is an unsolicited communication by a healthcare professional, or consumer to a  competent authority , marketing authorisation holder  or other organis ation (e.g. Regional  Pharmacovigilance Centre, Poison Control Centr e) that describes one or more suspected adverse  reactions in a patient who was given one or more medicinal products and  that does not derive from a  study or any organi sed data collection systems where adverse event s reporting is actively s ought , as  defined in VI.B.1.2 ..                                                    4 http://eudravigilance.ema.europa.eu/human/textforIME.asp .   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 9/90     Stimulated reporting  that occur s consequent to  a direct healthc are professional  communication  (see  Module XV ), publication in the press, questioning of healthcare professionals by company  representatives , communication  from patients’ organisations to their members , or class action lawsuit s  should be considered spontan eous reports .   Unsolicited consumer adverse reaction s reports should be handled as spontaneous reports irrespective  of any subsequent “medical confirmation”.   The reporting  modalities and applicable time frames for spontaneous reports are described in VI.B.7.  and VI.B.8 ..  VI.B.1.1.2. Literature reports   The s cientific and medical literature is a significant source of information for  the monitoring of the  safety pr ofile and of the risk -benefit balance of medicinal products , particularly in relation to the  detection of new safety signals or emerging safety issues . Marketing authorisation holders are  therefore expected to maintain awareness of possible publications th rough a systematic literature  review of widely used reference databases  (e.g. Medline, Excerpta Medica or Embase) no less  frequently than once a week. The marketing authorisation holder should ensure that the literature  review includes the use of r eference databases that contain the largest reference of articles in relation  to the medicinal product properties5. In addition, marketing authorisation holder s should have  procedures in place to monitor  scientific and medical publications in local journals  in cou ntries where  medicinal product s have a marketing authorisation , and to bring them to the attention of the company  safety department as appropriate.    Reports of suspected adverse reactions from the scientific and medical literature, including relevant  published abstracts from meetings and draft manuscripts, should be reviewed and assessed by  marketing authorisation holders  to identify and rec ord ICSRs originating  from spontaneous reports or  non-interventional post-authorisation studies.   If multiple medicina l products are mentioned in the publication, only those which are identified by the  publication's author(s) as having at least a possible causal relationship  with the suspected adverse  reaction should be considered by the concerned marketing authorisation holder (s).   Valid ICSRs sh ould be reported according to the modalities detailed in VI.B.7 . and VI.B.8 ..   One case should be created for each single  patient  identifiable based on characteristics provided in  VI.B.2 .. Relevant medical information should be provided  and the publication author (s) should be  considered as the primary source(s).   EU specific requirements , as reg ards medicinal products and scientific and medical publications , which  are not monitored by the Agency and for which valid ICSRs shall be reported by marketing  authorisation holders , are provided in VI.C.2.2.3 .  VI.B.1.1.3. Reports from other sources   If a marketing authorisation holder becomes aware of a repor t of suspected adverse reaction s  originating  from a non- medical source , for example  the lay press or other media, it should be handled  as a spontaneous report . Every attempt should be made to follow -up the case to obtain the minimum  information that constitutes a valid ICSR. T he same reporting time frames  should be applied as for  other spontaneous reports.                                                    5 See VI. Appendix 2.  for the detailed guidance  on the monitoring of medical and scientific literature.    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance prac tices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 10/90     VI.B.1.1.4. Information on suspected adverse reactions from the internet  or digital media   Marketing authorisation  holders  should regularly screen internet or digital media6 under their  management or responsi bility, for potential reports of suspected  adverse reactions. In this aspect,  digital media is considere d to be company sponsored if it is owned, paid for and/ or controlled by the  marketing authorisation holder7. The frequency of the screening should allow for potential valid ICSRs  to be reported to the competent authorities  within the appropriate reporting  timeframe based on the  date t he information was posted  on the internet site/digital medium . Marketing authorisation holders  may also consider utilising their websites to facilitate the collection of reports of suspected adverse  reactions (see VI.C.2.2.1 .).  If a marketing authorisation holder becomes aware of a report of suspected adverse reaction described  in any non-company sponsored digital medi um, the report should be assessed to determine whether it  qualifies for reporting.   Unsolicited cases of suspected adverse reactions  from the internet or digital media should be handled  as spontaneous reports. The same reporting time frames  as for spontaneous reports should be applied  (see VI.B.7 .).   In relation to cases from the internet  or digital media , the identifiability of the reporter refers to the  existence of a real person,  that is , it is possible to verify the  contact details  of the reporter  (e.g., an  email ad dress  under a valid format  has been provided) . If the country of the primary source is missing,  the country where the information was received , or where the review t ook place, should be used as the  primary source  country.   VI.B.1.2. Solicited reports   As def ined in ICH -E2D (see GVP Annex IV ), solicited reports of suspected adverse reactions are those  derived from organised data collection systems, which include clinical trials, non -interventional studies,  registries, post -approval named patient use programmes , other patient support and disease  management programmes, surveys of patients or healthcare providers, compassionate use or name  patient use, or information gathering on efficacy or patient compliance. Reports of suspected a dverse  reactions obtained from any of these data collection systems should not be considered spontaneous.  This is with the exception of :   • suspected adverse reactions  in relation  to those  adverse events for which the protocol of non- interventional post- authorisation studies  provides diff erently  and does not require their systematic  collection  (see VI.C.1.2.1. ),  • suspected adverse reactions originating from compassionate use or named patient use conducted  in Member States  where the  active collection of adverse events  occurring in th ese programmes  is  not required ( see VI.C.1.2.2 .).   For the purpose of safety reporting, solicited reports should be classified as study reports, and shou ld  have an appropriate causality assessment , to consider whether they refer to suspected adverse  reactions and therefore meet the criteria for reporting .                                                   6 Although not exhaustive, the following list should be considered as digital media: web site, web page, blog, vlog, social  network, intern et forum, chat room, health portal.   7 A donation (financial or otherwise)  to an organisation/site by a marketing authorisation holder does not constitute  ownership, provided that the marketing authorisation holder does not control the final content of the site.     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 11/90     General reporting rules for  suspected adverse reactions occurring in organised data collection s ystem s  conducted in the EU under the scope of Directiv e 2001/83/EC, Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 or  Directive 2001/20/EC, are presented in VI.C.1 ..   VI.B.2. Validation  of reports   Only valid ICSRs qualify for reporting. All reports  of suspected adverse reaction s should therefore be  validated before reporting them to the competent authorities  to make sure  that the minimum criteria   for reporting are  included in the report s (see ICH-E2D (see GVP Annex IV )). These are :  • one or more identifiable reporter (primary source), characterised by qualification (e.g. physician,  pharmacist, other health care professional, lawyer, consumer or other non -healthcare professional)  name , initials  or address8. Whenever possible,  contact details f or the reporter should be recorded   so that follow -up activities can be performed.  However , if the reporter does not wish to provide  contact details, the ICSR should still be considered as valid providing the organisation who was  informed of the case wa s able to confirm  it directly with the reporter.  All parties providing case  information or approached for case information should be identifiable, not only the initial reporter.   • one single  identifiable patient characterised by initials, patient identification number, date of birth,  age, age group or gender. The information should be as complete as possible9.   • one or more  suspecte d substance/medicinal product (see VI.A.2.2.).   • one or more  suspected adverse reactio n (see VI.A.2.1 .). If the primary source has made an explicit  statement that a causal relationship between the medicinal product and the adverse event has  been ex cluded and the receiver (competent authority  or marketi ng authorisation holder) agrees  with this, the report does not qualify as a valid ICSR since the minimum information is  incomplete10. The report does not also qualify as a valid ICSR if it is reported that the patient  experienced an unspecified adverse reac tion and there is no information provided on the type of  adverse reaction  experienced. Similarly, the report is  not valid if only a n outcome ( or consequence )  is notified  and (i) no further  information about the c linical circumstances is provided to conside r it  as a suspected adverse reaction , or (ii)  the primary source has not indicated a possible causal  relationship with the suspected medicinal product . For instance a marketing authorisation holder  is  made aware that a  patient was hospitalised or died , without any further information . In this  particular situation, m edical  judgement should always be applied in deciding whet her the notified  information is an  adverse reaction  or an event . For example,  a report of sudden death would  usually need to be considered as a case of suspected  adverse reaction  and reported.   The lack of any of these four elements means that the case is considered incomplete and does not qualify for reporting.  Competent authorities  and marketing authorisation holders  are expected to  exerci se due diligence in following up the case  to collect the missing data elements.  Reports,  for which  the minimum information is incomplete , should  nevertheless be recorded within the pharmacovigilance  system for use in on -going safety evaluation activities.  Recommendations on the electronic reporting of  valid ICSRs , when missing information has been obtained, are provided in VI.C.6.2.3.8.   When collecting reports of suspected adverse reactions via the internet or  digital media, the term  “identifiable” refers to the possibility of verification of the existence of a reporter and a patient  (see  VI.B.1.1.4 .).                                                    8 Local data privacy laws regarding patient’s and reporter’s identifiability might apply .  9 See Footnote 9.   10 There is no suspected adverse reaction .   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 12/90     When one party ( competent authority  or a marketing authorisation holder) is made aware that the  primary source may also have reported the suspected adverse reaction to another concerned party ,  the report should still be considered as a valid ICSR. All the relevant information necessary for the  detection of the duplic ate case  should be included in the ICSR11.  A valid case of suspected adverse reaction initially submitted by a  consumer cannot be downgraded to  a report  of non -related adverse event  if the contacted healthcare professional (nominated by the  consumer for follow -up information) disagrees with the consumer ’s suspicion  (see VI.A.2.1.1 .). In this  situation, the opinion s of both the consumer and  the healthcare professional should be included  in the   ICSR. Guidance on the reporting  of the medical confirmation of a case, provided in ICH -E2B(R2)    Section A.1.14 ( “Was the case medically confirmed, if not initially from a healthcare professional?”)   (see GVP Annex IV ), should be followed.   For solicited report s of suspected adverse reaction s (see VI.B.1.2 .), where  the receiver  disagrees with  the reasonable possibility of causal relationship between the suspected medicinal product and the  adverse reaction expressed by the primary source, the ca se should not be downgraded to a report of  non-related adverse event . The opinion s of both, the primary source and the receiver , should be  recorded in the ICSR .   The same principle applies to the ICSR seriousness criterion, which should not be downgraded f rom  serious to non -serious if the receiver  disagrees with the seriousness reported by the primary source.   VI.B.3. Follow -up of reports   When first received, t he information i n suspected adverse reaction s reports  may be incomplete. These  reports  should be fo llowed -up as necessary to obtain supplementary detailed information significant  for  the scientific evaluation of the cases . This is particularly relevant for monitored e vents of special  interest , prospective reports of pregnancy , cases notifying  the death of a patient , cases reporting  new  risks or changes in the known risks . This is in addition to any effort  to collect missing minimum  information ( see VI.B.2 .). Any attempt to obtain follow -up information should be  documented.    Follow -up methods should be tailored towards optimi sing the collection of missing information. This  should be done in ways that  encourage the primary source to submit new information relevant for the  scientific evaluation  of a particular safe ty concern. The use of targeted specific forms in the local  language should avoid requesting the primary source to repeat  information already provided in the  initial report and/or to complete extensive questionnaires, which could discourage future spontane ous  reporting.  Therefore, c onsideration should be given to pre -populating some data fields  in those follow - up report forms  to make their completion by the primary source easy .   When information is received directly from a consumer  suggesting that an advers e reaction may have  occurred , if the information is incomplete,  attempt s should be made to obtain consent to contact a  nominated healthcare professional to obtain  further follow -up information.  When such a case, initially  reported by a consumer,  has been c onfirmed (totally or partially) by a  healthcare professional,  this  information should be clearly highlighted in the ICSR12.   For suspected adverse reaction s relating to biological medicinal products, the definite identification of  the concerned product with  regard to its manufacturing is of particular importance. Therefore,  all  appropriate measures should be taken to clearly identify the name of the product and the batch                                                   11 For further guidance on reporting of other duplicate ICSRs, refer to section A.1.11 “Other case i dentifiers in previous  transmission” of ICH-E2B(R2)  (see GVP Annex IV ).  12 For further guidance on reporting  this information, refer to ICH-E2B(R2) , section A.1.14 (“Was the case medically  confirmed, if not initially from a healthcare professional?”) (see GVP Annex IV) .   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 13/90     number . A business process map in relation to the mandatory follow -up of information for  the  identification of suspected biological medicinal products is presented in VI.Appendix 1. .   For cases related to vaccines,  GVP P.I.  should also be followed as appropriate.    VI.B.4. Data management   Electronic data and paper reports of suspected adverse reactions  should be stored and treated in the  same way as other medical records with appropriate respect for confidentiality  regarding patient s’ and  reporter s’ identifia bility and in accordance with local  data privacy laws.  Confidentiality of p atients'  records including personal identifiers, if provided, should always be maintained. Identifiable personal  details of reporting healthcare professiona ls should be kept in confidence . With regards to patient’s a nd  reporter’s identifiability,  case report information should be transmitted between stakeholders  (marketing authorisation holders or competent authorities) in accordance with local data privacy laws  (see VI.C.6.2 .2.8. for the processing of personal data in ICSRs in the EU).   In order to ensure pharmacovigilance data security and confidentiality , strict access controls  should be  applied to documents and to databases to authorised personnel only . This security exten ds to the  complete data path. In this aspect, p rocedures should be implemented to ensure security and non - corruption of data during data transfer.   When transfer of pharmacovigilance data occurs within an organisation or between  organisations   having conclud ed contractual agreements , the mechanism should be such that there is confidence that  all notifications are received ; in that , a confirmation and/or reconciliation process should be   undertaken.   Correct d ata entry, including the appropriate use of terminol ogies, should be verified  by quality  assurance auditing , either systematically or by regular random evaluation. Data entry staff should be  instructed in the use of the terminologies, and their proficiency confirmed .   Data received from the primary source s hould be treated in an u nbiased and unfiltered way and  inferences as well as imputation s should be avoided during data entry or electronic transmission . The  reports  should include the verbatim text as used by the primary source or  an accurate translation o f it.  The original verbatim text  should be coded usi ng the appropriate terminology as described in VI.B.8 . In  order to e nsure cons istency in the coding practices,  it is recommended to use , where applicable, the  translation of the terminology in the local language  to code the verbatim text .   Electronic data s torage should allow traceability (audit trail) of all data entered or modified, including  dates and sources of received data, as well as dates and destinations of transmitted data.   A procedure sh ould be in place to account for identification and management of duplicate cases at data  entry and during the generation of aggregated reports (see VI.C.6.2.4 .).  VI.B.5. Quality management   Competent authorities  and marketing authori sation holders should have a quality management system  in place to ensure compliance with the necessary quality standards at every stage of case  documentation,  such as data collection, data transfer, data m anagement , data coding , case validation,  case evaluation , case follow -up, ICSR reporting  and case archiving  (see VI.C.6.2.4 . and Module I ).  Conformity of stored data with initial and follow -up reports should be verified  by quality control  procedures, which permit  for the validation against the original data or images thereof. In this aspect,  the source data (e.g., letters, emails, records of telephone calls that include details of an event) or an  image of the source data should be easily accessible.    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 14/90     Clear written standard operating procedures should guarantee  that the roles an d responsibilities and  the required tasks are clear to all parties involved and that there is provision for proper control and,  when needed, change of the system. This is equally applicable to activities that are contracted out to  third parties , whose  procedures should be reviewed to verify that they are adequate and compliant  with applicable requirements.   Staff directly performing pharmacovigilance activities , should be appropriately trained in applicable  pharmacovigilance legislation and guidelines in ad dition to specific training in report processing   activities for which they are responsible and/or undertake . Other personnel who may receive or  process safety reports (e.g. clinical development, sales, medical information, legal, quality control)  should be  trained in adverse event collection and reporting in accordance with internal policies and  procedures.   VI.B.6. Special situations   VI.B.6.1. Use of a medicinal product du ring pregnancy or breastfeeding    a. Pregnancy   Reports , where the embryo or foetus may have been exposed to medicinal products (either through  maternal exposure or transmission of a medicinal product via semen following paternal exposure) ,  should be followed -up in order to collect information on the outcome of the pregnancy and  development o f the child  after birth . The recommendations provided in the Guideline on the Exposure  to Medicinal P roducts during Pregnancy: N eed for P ost-Authorisation Data (see GVP Annex III ) should  be considered as regard the monitoring, collection and reporting of information in these specific  situations in order to facilitate the scientific evaluation.  When an active substance (or one of its  metabolites)  has a long half -life, this should be taken into account when assessing  the possibility of  exposure of the embryo , if the medicinal product was taken before conception.    Not infrequently, pregnant women or healthcare professionals will contact either competent authorities   or marketing authorisation holders  to request  information on the teratogen icity of a medicinal pr oduct  and/or experience of use during pregnancy.  Reasonable attempt s should be made to obtain  information on a ny possible medicinal product exposure to a n embryo or  foetus  and to follow -up on the  outcome  of the pregnancy .   Reports  of exposure to medicinal products during pregnancy should contain  as many detailed elements  as possible in order  to assess the causal relationship s between any reported adverse events and the  exposure to the suspected medicinal product.  In this context the use  of standard structur ed  questionnaires is recommended.   Individual cases with an abnormal outcome associated with a medicinal product  following exposure  during pregnancy  are classified  as serious reports and should be reported, in accordance with the   requirements outlined in VI.B.7.13.  This especially refers to:   • reports of congenital anomalies  or development al delay,  in the foetus  or the child;   • reports of foetal death and spontaneous abortion; and   • reports of suspected adverse reactions in the neonate that are classified as serious.                                                    13 See VI.C.6.2.3.1  for electronic reporting recommendations in the EU.    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 15/90     Other cases, such as reports of induced termination of pregnancy without information on congenital  malformation, reports of pregnancy exposure without outcome data  or reports which have a normal  outcome , should not be reported since there is no suspected adverse reaction . These reports should  however be collected and discussed  in the periodic safety update reports ( see Module VII ).   However, i n certain circumstances, reports of pregnancy exposure with no suspected reactions may  necessitate to be reported. This may be a condition o f the marketing authorisation or stipu lated in the  risk management plan; for example pregnancy exposure to medicinal products contraindicated in  pregnancy or medicinal products with a special need for surveillance because of a high teratogenic potential (e.g. thalidomide, isotretinoin).   A signal of a possible teratogen effect (e.g. through a cluster of similar abnormal outcomes) should be  notified immediately  to the competent authorities  in accordance with the recommendations presented  in VI.C.2.2.6 .  b. Breastfeeding   Suspected a dverse reactions which occur  in infants following exposure to a medicinal product from  breast milk  should be reported in accordance with the criteria outlined in VI.B.7 .14.  VI.B.6.2. Use of a medicinal product in  a paediatric  or elderly  population   The collection of safety information in the paediatric  or elderly  population is importan t. Reasonable   attempts  should therefore be made to obtain  and submit  the age or age group of the patien t when a  case is reported by a healthcare professional, or consumer  in order to be able to identify  potential  safety signals specific to a particular population .  As regards the paediatric population, t he guidance published by the Agency15 on the conduct of   pharmacovig ilance in this population  should be followed.   VI.B.6.3. Reports of overdose , abuse, off -label use, misuse , medication  error or occupational exposure   For the purpose of this Module, medication error refers to any unintentional error in the presc ribing,  dispensing, or administration of a medicinal product while in the control of the healthcare professional  or consumer.   Reports of overdose , abuse , off-label use, misuse , medication error  or occupational exposure  with no  associated adverse reaction  should not be reported as ICSRs . They  should be considered in p eriodic  safety update report s as applicable . When those reports constitute safety issues impacting  on the risk - benefit balance of the medicinal product , they  should be notified to the competent authorities  in  accordance with the recommendations provided in VI.C.2.2 .6.  Reports  associated with suspected adverse reactions should be  subject to reporting  in accordance with  the criteria outlined in VI.B.7 . and with the electronic reporting requirements described in VI.C.6.2.3.3 .  They should be routinely followed -up to ensure that the information is as complete a s possible with  regards to the symptoms, treatments , outcomes , context of occurrence (e.g., error in prescription,  administration, dispensing , dosage , unauthorised indication or population, etc. ).                                                    14 See Footnote 16 .  15 Guideline on conduct of pharmacovigilance for medicines used by the paediatric population .   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (G VP) – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 16/90     VI.B.6.4. Lack of therapeutic efficacy   Reports of lack of  therapeutic efficacy  should be recorded and followed- up if incomplete. They  should  not normally be reported , but should be discussed in p eriodic safety update report s as applicable .  However, in certain circumstances,  reports of lack of  therapeutic efficacy may require to be reported  within a 15 -day time frame  (see VI.C.6.2.3.4 . as regards electronic reporting in the EU) . Medicinal  products used  in critical conditions or  for the treatment of life -threatening disea ses, vaccines,   contraceptives are examples of such cases.  This applies  unless the reporter has specifically stated that  the outcome  was due to disease progression and was not related to the medicinal product.   Clinical judgement should be used when conside ring if other cases of lack of therapeutic efficacy  qualify for reporting. For example, an antibiotic  used in a life-threatening situation  where the medicinal  product was not in fact appropriate for the in fective agent should not be reported. However, a li fe- threatening infection , where the lack of therapeutic efficacy appear s to be due to the development of a  newly resistant strain of a bacterium pr eviously regarded as susceptible,  should be reported within 15  days.   For vaccines, cases of lack of therapeu tic efficacy should be reported, in particular with the view to  highlight potential signals of reduced immunogenicity in  a sub -group of vaccinees, waning immunity,  or strain replacement. With regard to the latter, it is considered that spontaneously reported cases of  lack of therapeutic efficacy by a healthcare professional may constitute a signal of strain replacement.  Such a signal may need prompt action and further investigation through post- authorisation safety  studies as appropriate. General guidance regarding the monitoring of  vaccines failure , provided in the  Report of CIOMS/WHO Working Group  on Vaccine Pharmacovigilance16, may be followed.   VI.B.7. Reporting of I ndividual case safety reports (I CSRs )  Only valid ICSR s (see VI.B.2.) should  be reported. The clock for the  reporting of a valid ICSR starts as  soon as the information containing the minimum reporting criteria has been brought to the attention of   the national or regional pharmacovigilance centre of a com petent authority  or of any personnel of the  marketing authorisation holder , including medical representatives  and contractors. This date should be  considered as day zero . It is the first day when a receiver gains  knowledge of a valid ICSR, irrespective  of whether the information is received during a week end or public holiday.  Reporting timelines are  based on calendar days.   Where the marketing authorisation holder has set up contractual arrangements with a person or an  organisation, explicit procedures and detailed agreements should exist between the marketing  authorisation holder and the person/organisation to ensure that the marketing authorisation holder can  comply with the reporting obligations.  These procedures should in particular  specify the processes for  exchange of safety information, including timelines and regulatory reporting responsibilities and should  avoid duplicate reporting to the competent authorities .  For ICSRs described in the scientific  and medical  literature  (see VI.B.1.1.2 .), the clock starts (day  zero) with awareness of a publication containing the minimum information  for reporting . Where  contractual arrangements are made with a person/organisation to perform literature searches and/or   report valid ICSRs, detailed agreements should exist to ensure that the marketing authorisation holder  can comply with the reporting obligations.                                                    16 Council for Interna tional Organizations of Medical Sciences (CIOMS). Definition and application of terms of vaccine  pharmacovigilance (report of CIOMS/WHO Working Group on Vaccine Pharmacovigilance). Genève: CIOMS; 2012.   http://www.cioms. ch/   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 17/90     When additional significant  information is received for a previously reported case, the reporting time  clock starts again for the submission of a  follow -up report from the da te of receipt of the relevant  follow -up information. For the purpose of reporting, significant  follow -up information corresponds to  new medical or administrative information that could impact on the assessment or management of a   case or could change its se riousness criteria; non -significant  information includes updated comments  on the case assessmen t or corrections of typographical errors in the previous case version.  See also  VI.C.6.2.2.7 . as regards the distinction between s ignificant and non- significant follow -up information .  VI.B.7.1. Reporting time frames   In general , the reporting of serious valid ICSRs is required as soon a s possib le, but in no case later  than 15 calendar days after  initial receipt of the information by the national or regional  pharmacovigilance centre of a competent authority  or by any personnel of the marketing authorisation  holder , including medical representativ es and contractors. This applies to initial and follow -up  information.  Where a  case initially reported as serious becomes  non-serious,  based on new follow -up  information,  this information should still be reported within 15 days; the reporting time frame for non- serious reports should then be applied for the subsequent  follow -up reports .  Information as regards the reporting time frame of non -serious valid ICSRs in the EU is provided in  VI.C.3.  VI.B.8. Reporting modalit ies  Taking into account the international dimension of adverse reaction s reporting and the need to achieve  harmonisation  and high quality between all involved parties , ICSRs  should be submitted electronically   as structured data with the use of controlled v ocabularies for the relevant data elements where  applicable . In this aspect , with regard to the content and format of electronic ICSRs,  competent  authorities  and marketing authorisation holders should adhere to the following internationally agreed   ICH17 guidelines and standards :  • ICH M1 terminology -  Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA)  (see GVP Annex IV );  • MedDRA Term Selection: Points to Consider Document -  The latest version of the ICH -endorsed  Guide for MedDRA U sers (see GVP Annex IV );  • ICH M2 EWG -  Electronic Transmission of Individual Case Safety Reports Message Specification   (see GVP Annex IV );  • ICH E2B(R2) -  Maintenance of the ICH Guideline on Clinical Safety Data Management: Data  Elements for Transmission of Individual Case Safety Reports  (see GVP Annex IV );  • ICH E2B Implementation Working Group -  Questions & Answers (R5) (March 3, 2005) (see GVP  Annex IV ).  As technical standards e volve over time, the above referred documents may require revision and  maintenance. In this context, the lates t version of these documents should always be taken into  account.   Information  regarding EU specific reporting modalities  is provided in VI.C.4.                                                    17 http://www.ich.org/    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 18/90     VI.C. Operation of the EU n etwork   Section C  of this Module highlight s the EU specific requirements , as defined in Directive 2001/83/EC  and Regulation (EC)  No 726/2004, in relation to the collection, management and reporting of reports  of suspected adverse reaction s (serious and non -serious) associated with medicinal produc ts for  human use authorised in the EU , independently of their condition of use . They are applicable to  competent authorities in Member States and/or to marketing authorisation holders . Section C  should  be read in conjunction  with the definitions and genera l principles  detailed in VI.A and VI.B of this  Module  and with t he requirements provided in c hapter s IV, V and IX of the Commission Implementing  Regulation (EU) No 520/ 2012 [IR].  VI.C.1. Reporting  rules for clinical trials  and post -authorisation studies in  the EU   The pharmacovigilance rules laid down in Directive 2 001/83/EC and Regulation (EC)  No 726/2004 do  not apply to investigational medicinal products and non -investigational medicinal products18 used in  clinical trials conducted in accordance with Directive 2001/20/EC19.   Post-authorisation  safety or efficacy  studies requested by competent authorities in Member States or  the Agency  in accordance with Directive 2001/83/E C or Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, or conducted  voluntarily by marketing authorisation holders,  can either be clinical trials or non -interventional post- authorisation studies as shown in Figure VI .1. The s afety reporting falls therefore either under the  scope of Directive 2001/20/EC for any clinical trials  or under the provisions set out in Directive  2001/83/EC an d Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 for any non-interventional post-authorisation  studies .  Suspected adverse reactions should  not be reported under both regimes, that is Directive 2001/20/E C  as well as Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 and Directive 2001/83/EC  as this create s duplicate  reports .   Further guidance on post -authorisation safety studies is provided in Module VIII .  The different types of studies and clinical trials which can be conducted in the EU are illustrated in  Figure VI.1. The safety reporting for cl inical trials corresponding to s ection s A, B, C and D of Figure  VI.1. follow s the requirements of Directive 2001/20/EC. The safety reporting for non -interventional  post-authorisation studies corresponding to section E and F follow s the requirements of Directive  2001/83/EC and Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The reporting rules  of reports of suspected adverse  reactions to the EudraVigilance database modules are dependent on the types of organised collection  systems where they occurred; recommendations  provided in VI.C.6.2.1  should be followed.                                                    18 For guidance on these terms, see The Rules Governing Medicinal Product s in the European Union , Volume 10, Guidance  Applying to C linical Trials, G uidance on Investigational Medicinal Products  and Non -Investigational Medicinal Products  (NIMPs ) (Ares(2011)300458 - 18/03/2011 ).  19 See DIR Art 3(3), Art 107(1) thir d subparagraph.    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 19/90     Figure VI.1.  Diagram illustrating different types of clinical trials and studies in the EU       Section A:  Clinical trials, which fall under the scope of Dire ctive 2001/20/EC and which are conducted when no  marketing authorisation exists in the EU.   Section B:  Clinical trials, which fall under the scope of Directive 2001/20/EC and which are conducted in the post - authorisation period, e.g. for new indication.   Section C:  Post-authorisation clinical trials  conducted in accordance with the summary of product characteristics (S mPC)  indication and condition of use, but which fall under the scope of Directive 2001/20/EC due to the nature of  the intervention.   Section D:  Post-authorisation safety or efficacy clinical trials requested in accordance with Directive 2 001/83/EC or  Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 or conducted voluntarily by marketing authorisation holders, but  which fall  under the scope of Directive 2001/20/EC due t o the nature of the intervention.   Section E:  Non-interventional post -authorisation safety or efficacy studies requested in accordance with Directive  2001/83/EC or Regulation (EC)  No 726/2004 or conducted voluntarily by the marketing authorisation holders  and which follow  the same legal requirements.   Section F:  Non-interventional post -authorisation studies conducted in accordance with S mPC indication and condition of  use and which fall under the scope of Directive 2001/83/EC or Regulation (EC) No 726/2004.   VI.C.1. 1. Reporting rules for  clinical trials   A suspected adverse reaction to an investigational medicinal product occurring in a  clinical trial which  falls under the scope of  Directive 2001/20/EC is only to be addressed by the sponsor based on the  requirem ents detailed in  that Directive. It is therefore excluded from the scope of this M odule  even if  the clinical trial where the suspected adverse reaction occurred is a post-authorisation safety or  efficacy study, requested in accordance with Directive 2001/8 3/EC or Regulation (EC) No 726/2004,  or  conducted voluntarily .   If a clinical trial,  conducted under the scope of  Directive 2001/20/EC , yields safety concerns which  impact o n the risk -benefit balance of an authorised medicinal product, the competent author ities in the  Member States where the medicinal product is authorised and the Agency should be notified  immediately in accordance with the modalities detailed in VI.C.2.2.6 . This applies as well if a safety  conce rn arises from a clinical trial conducted exclusively outside the EU.   The safety data from clinical trials to be presented in the relevant sections of the periodic safety  update report of the authorised medicinal product are detailed in Module VII .       Non-interventional   post-authorisation studies           Clinical trials         A B      Pre-authorisation  Post-authorisation   C                       F   D  Safety &  Efficacy   E       Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 20/90     Where  an untoward and unintended response originating from a clinical trial conducted in  accordance  with Directive 2 001/20/EC , is suspected to be related only to a non- investigational medicinal product  (or another medicinal product,  which is not part of the clinical trial protocol) and does not result from a  possible interaction with the investigational medicinal produc t, it does not follow the expedited  reporting requirements  of Directive 2001/20/EC , which apply only to the investigational medicinal  product . The investigator or the sponsor is encouraged to report the case  to the competent authority in  the Member State where the reaction occurred or to the marketing authorisation holder  of the  suspected medicinal product , but not to both to avoid duplicate reporting20. Whe re made aware  of such  case, the competent authority  or the marketing authorisation holder  should apply  the reporting  requirements  described in VI.C.3 , VI.C.4  and VI.C.6 . As regards electronic reporting, the  recommendations detailed  in VI.C.6.2.3.7  should be followed.   VI.C. 1.2. Reporting rules for non- interventional post-authorisation studies,  compassionate use and named patient use   This Section applies to non -interventional post-authorisation studies , compassionate use and named  patient use . For th ese org anised data collection schemes,  a system  should be put in place  to record  and document complete and comprehensive case information  on solicited adverse events21 which need  to be collected as specified in VI.C.1.2.1. and in VI.C.1.2.2 .. These adverse events should be  systematically assessed to determine whether they  are possib ly related to the studied (or supplied)  medicinal product s (see ICH-E2D (see GVP Annex IV) ). A method of causality assessment should be  applied for assessing the causal role of the studied (or supplied)  medicinal product s in the solicited   adverse event s (for example, the WHO-UMC system for standardised case causality assessment ). An  adverse event should be classified as an adverse reaction, if there is at least a reasonable possibility of  causal relatio nship . Only valid ICSRs  (see VI.B.2 .) of adverse reactions,  which are suspected to be  related to the studied (or supplied) medicinal product  by the primary source or the receiver  of the  case, should be reported in accordance with the requirements provided in VI.C.3 ., VI.C.4 . and  VI.C.6 .2.3.7. . Other reports of adverse events should be su mmarised as part of any interim safety  analysis and  in the final study report, where applicable.   In situations where  adverse reactions are  suspected to be related to medicinal products other than the studied (or supplied) medicine,  these  reports should be  managed, classified  and reported as spontaneous  ICSRs . They should be notified  by  the primary source  to the competent authority in the Member State  where the reaction s occurred  or to  the marketing authorisation holder  of the suspected medicinal product , but not to both ( to avoid  duplicate reporting) .   Where made aware, in the frame of th ese organised data collection schemes, of events which affect  the known risk -benefit balance of the studied ( or supplied ) medicinal product and/or impact on public  health, the marketing authorisation holder should notify the concerned competent authorities and the  Agency in accordance with the modalities detailed in VI.C.2.2.6 ..  Further guidance on post -authorisation studies condu cted by marketing authorisation holders is  provided in VI.C.2.2.2 ..  The requirements provided in this Module do not apply to non- interventional post- authorisation studies  conducted by organisations  such as academia,  medical research charities or research organisations in  the public sector . These organisations should follow local requirements as regards the reporting of  cases of suspected adverse reactions to the compet ent authority in the Member State where the                                                   20 See The Rules Governing Medicinal Product s in the European Union, Volume 10, Detailed guidance on the collection,  verification and presentation of adverse event/reaction reports arising from clinical trials on medicinal products for human  use (‘CT- 3’), (2011/C 172/01) .  21See GVP Annex I  for definition o f adverse event.    Guideline on  good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 21/90     reaction occurred . However, where a study conducted by one of these organisation s is directly  initiated, managed , financed , or where its design is controlled by a marketing authorisation holder   (voluntarily or pursuant to obligations imposed in accordance with Articles 21a or 22a of Directive  2001/83/EC  and Articles 10 or 10(a) of Regulation 726/2004) , the requirements provided in this   Module are applicable22. In this context, contractual agreements should be in place to clearly define  the role and responsibiliti es for implementing these requirements  (see Module I ).  VI.C. 1.2.1. Non-interventional post-authorisation studi es  Non-interventional post-authorisation studies23 should be distinguished between those with primary  data collection directly from healthcare professionals or consumers  and study designs which are based  on the secondary use of data.  Depending on the study design, the requirements provided hereafter  apply24. In case of doubt, the reporting requirement s should be clarified with the concerned competent  authorities in Member States. N ational legislation should be followed as applicable regarding  the  obligations towards local ethics committees .   a. Non-interventional post -authorisation studies with primary data collection   Information on  all adverse events  should be collected from  healthcare professionals or consumers in  the course of the study unless the protocol provides differently  with a due justification for not collecting  certain adverse events . For all collected adverse events, comprehensive and high quality information  should be sought  in a manner which allow for valid ICSRs to be reported with in the appropriat e  timeframes (see VI.C.3. ).   For all collected adverse events, cases of adverse reactions, which are suspected to be related to the studied medicinal product by the primary source or the receiver of the case, should be reported  in  accordance with the requirements provided in VI.C.3 . and VI.C.4 .. Valid ICSRs should be classified as  solicited reports ( see VI.C.2.2.2 . and VI.C.6.2.3.7. ). See summary in Table VI.1. .  All fatal outcomes should be considered as adverse events which should  be collected.  In certain  circumstances, suspected adverse reactions with  fatal outcome may not be subject to expedited  reporting as ICSR s, for example because they refer to  study  outcomes  (efficacy end points), because  the patients included in the study have a disease with high mortality, or because the fatal outcomes have no relation to the objective of the study.  For these particular situations, the rational for not  reporting certain adverse reactions with fatal outcomes should be clearly described in the protocol.    All collected  adverse events should be summarised as part o f any interim safety analysis and in the  final study report.                                                     22 This does not concern donation of a medicinal product for research purpose if the marketing authorisation holder has no  control on the study.   23 See GVP Annex I  for definition of non -interventional study.   24 For combined study designs  with primary and secondary data collection , the same requirements as for  studies with  primary data collection should be followed.    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 22/90     Table VI.1.  Non-interventional post- authorisation studie s with primary data collection : Requirements  concerning  adverse events collection and suspected adverse reactions reporting.    Adverse events for which  the protocol does not provide differently  and those with fatal outcomes   Collection requirements  • Collect comprehensive and high quality information.   • Perform causality assessment.   Reporting requirements  for suspected adverse  reactions • Cases of adverse reactions, which are suspected to be related to  the studied medicinal product by the primary source or the  receiver of the case, should be reported in the form of valid ICSRs  in line with the appropriate timeframes (See VI.C.3)   • In certain circumstances, fatal  outcome may not be subject to  expedited reporting as ICSRs. A justification should always be  provided in the protocol.   Reporting requirements  for adverse events  • Summarise all collected adverse events as part of any interim  safety analysis and in the final study report.   For adverse events for which the protocol provides differently and does not require their systematic  collection, healthcare professionals and consumers should be informed in the protocol (or other study  documents) of the possibility to rep ort adverse reactions (for which they suspect a causal role of a  medicine) to the marketing authorisation holder of the suspected medicinal product (studied or not) or  to the concerned competent authorities via the national spontaneous reporting system. Va lid ICSRs  should be managed, classified and reported as spontaneous by the receiver of the reports . When made  aware of them, these reports should also be summarised in the relevant study reports.   b. Non-interventional post-authorisation studies based on secon dary use of data   The design of such studies is characterised by the secondary use of data previously co llected from  consumers  or health care professionals for other purposes. Examples include medical  chart re views  (including following -up on data with healthcare professionals), analysis of electronic health care  records, systematic reviews,  meta-analyses.   For these studies,  the reporting of suspected adverse reactions in the form of ICSRs is not required.  Reports of adverse events/reactions should be summari sed as part of any interim safety analysis and  in the final study report unless the protocol provides for different  reporting .   VI.C. 1.2.2. Compassionate use  and named patient use   The guidance provided in this Module applies, subject to amendments where appropriate,  to medicinal  products supplied in the context of compassionate use as defined in Article 83(2) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. As the case may be, this guidance may also apply to named patient use as defined under Article 5(1) of Directive 2001/ 83/EC.  Local requirements  should be followed as applicable.   Where an organisation 25 or a healthcare professional, supplying a medicinal product under  compassion ate use or named patient use, is notified or becomes aware of a n adverse event , it should  be mana ged as follow s depending on  the requirements  in the concerned Member State:    • For compassionate  use and named patient use conducted in Member States where the active  collection of adverse events occurring in these programmes is required, reports of adverse                                                   25 E.g. sponsor, applicant, marketing authorisation holder, hospital or wholesaler.    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 23/90     reactions, which are  suspected to be related to the supplied medicinal product  by the primary  source or the receiver of the case , should be reported.  They should be considered as solicited  reports  (see VI.C.2.2.2 . and VI.C.6.2.3.7.).   • For compassionate use and named patient use conducted in Member States  where the active  collection of  adverse events occurring in these programmes is not required, any notified noxious or  unintended response to the supplied medicinal product should be reported. It  should be considered  as a spontaneous report of suspected adverse reaction .   VI.C.2. Colle ction of reports   VI.C.2.1. Responsibi lities of Member State s  Each M ember State sh all have in place a system for the collection and recording of unsolicited and  solicited  reports  of suspected adverse reactions  that occur in its  territory  and which are brought to its  attention by healthcare professionals, consumers , or marketing authorisation holde rs26 [DIR Art 101(1)  and 107a(1)] . In this context, competent authorities in Member States shall establish procedures for  collecting and recording all  reports of  suspected adverse reactions that occur in their territory  [IR Art  15 (2)]. T he general  principl es detailed in VI.B, together with the reporting modalities presented in  VI.C.3, VI.C.4 and VI.C.6  should be applied to those reports . Pharmacovigilance data and documents  relating to individual authorised medicinal products shall be retained as long as the product is  authorised and for at least 10 years after the marketing authorisat ion has expired. However, the  documents shall be retained for a longer period where Union law or national law so requires  [IR Art  16(2)].   Each Member State shall take all appropriate  measures to encourage healthcare professionals and  consumers in their ter ritory to report suspected adverse reactions to their competent authority. In  addition , the competent authority in  a Member State may impose specific obligations on healthcare  professionals.  To this end, competent authorities in Member States shall facilitate in their territory the  reporting of suspected adverse reactions by mean s of alternative straightforward reporting systems,  accessible to healthcare professionals and consumers, in addition to web -based formats [DIR Art 102] .  Information on the differen t ways of reporting suspected adverse reactions related to medicinal  products , shall be made publicly available including by means of national medicines web -based portals  [DIR 106(e)]. To increase awar eness of the reporting systems, organisations representing consumers  and healthcare professionals may be involved  as appropriate [DIR Art 102] .  Standard web- based structured forms for the reporting of suspected adverse reactions by healthcare  professionals and consumers shall be developed by the Agency in coll aboration with Member States in  order to collect across the EU harmonised information relevant for the evaluation of suspected adverse  reactions, including errors associated with the use of medicinal products  [REG Art 25] . In this context,  core data fields  for reporting  will be made available by the Agency to the competent authorities in  Member States for use in their national reporting systems as applicable .   The reports of suspected adverse reactions received from healthcare professionals and consumers  should be acknowledged where appropriate and further information should be provided to the reporters  as requested and when available .   For reports submitted by a marketing authorisation holder, Member States on whose territory the  suspected adverse reaction occurred may involve the marketing authorisation holder in the follow -up  of the reports  [DIR Art 107a(2) ].                                                   26 Marketing authorisation holders shall report ICSRs to the competent authorities in Member States in accordance with the  transitional provisions set out in Article 2(4) and Article 2(5) of Directive 2010/84/EU and further detailed in VI.C.4.1 .   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 24/90     Each Member State shall ensure that the competent authority responsible for medicinal products within  that Member State is informed of any suspected adver se reaction , brought to the attention of any  other authority, body, institution or organisation responsible for patient safety within that Member  State, and that valid ICSRs are made available to the EudraVigilance database. Therefore, where  reports o f suspected adverse reactions are sent directly to other authorities, bodies, organisations  and/or institutions  within a Member State, the competent authority in that Member State shall have  data exchange agreements in place so that these reports are brought to its attention and are made  available to Eudra Vigilance in a timely manner [DIR Art  107a(5) ]. This applies as well to reports of  suspected adverse reactions arising from an error associated with the use of a medicinal product.  Those error reports of su spected adverse reactions for which  a competent authority in a Member  State  is made aware of, including those received from the EudraVigilance database in accordance with  Article 24(4) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, shall also be brought to the attention of  other  authorities, bodies, organisations and/or institutions responsible for patient safety within that Member State  [DIR Art 107a(5)].   Unless there are justifiable grounds resulting from pharmacovigilance activities, individual Member  States shall not impose any additional obligations on marketing authorisation holders for the reporting  of suspected adverse reactions  [DIR Art 107a(6) ].  VI.C.2. 2. Responsibilities of the m arketing authorisation holder  in the EU    Each m arketing authorisation holder shall h ave in place a system for the collection and recording of all  reports of suspected adverse reactions which are brought to its attention , whether reported  spontaneously by healthcare professionals or consumers or occurring in the context of a post- authorisa tion study [DIR A rt 104(1), Art  107(1)].  Marketing authorisation holders shall not refuse to  consider reports of suspected adverse reactions received electronically or by any other  appropriate means from patients and healthcare professionals [ Art 107(2)]. All those r eports shall  be accessible at a single point within the Union [Dir Art 107(1)].   Marketing authorisation holders shall establish mechanisms enabling the traceability and follow -up of  adverse reaction reports while complying with the data protection legislation [ IR Art 12 (1)].  Pharmacovigilance data and documents relating to individual authorised medicinal products shall be  retained as long as the product is authorised and for at least 10 years after the marketing  authorisation has ceased to exist. However, the documents shall  be retained for a longer period where  Union law or national law so requires  [IR Art 12 (2)].  With regard to the collection and recording of reports of suspected adverse reactions , marketing  authorisation holder s responsibilities apply to reports related to medicinal products ( see VI.A.2.2 .) for  which ownership cannot be excluded on  the basis of one the following criteria : medicinal product  name, active substance name, pharmaceu tical form,  batch number  or route of administration.  Exclusion based on the primary source count ry or country of origin of the adverse reaction  is possible if  the marketing authorisation holder  can demonstrate that the suspected medicinal product has never   been supplied or placed on the market in that territory or that the product is not a travel medicine   (e.g., anti -malarial medicinal product) .   The m arketing authorisation holder shall ensure that any information on  adverse reactions,  suspected  to be relat ed to at least one of the active substance s of its medicinal products authorised in the EU , is  brought to its attention by  any company  outside the EU  belonging to the same mother company ( or  group of companies ) 27. The same applies to the marketing authoris ation holder when having                                                   27 As outlined in the Commission Communication on the Community Marketing Authorization Procedures for Medicinal  Products ( 98/C 229/03 ).   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 25/90     concluded a commercial agreement with a company outside the E U for one of its medicinal product  authorised in the EU . The clock for reporting (s ee VI.B.7 .) starts when a valid ICSR is first received by  one of these companies  outside the EU .  In addition to the requirements presented in this Section , the general principles detailed in Section  VI.B., together with the reporting modalities presented in VI.C.3 ., VI.C.4 . and VI.C.6 . should be  applied by marketing authorisation holders to all reports of suspected adverse reactions.   VI.C.2.2.1. Spontaneous reports   Marketing authorisation holders sh all record all reports of suspected adverse reactions originating from  within or outside the EU, which are brought to their attention spontaneously by healthcare  professionals, or  consumers . This includes  reports of suspected adverse reactions received  electronically or by any other appropriate means  [DIR Art 107(1), Art 107(2)]. In this context,  marketing authorisation holders may  consider utilising their websites to facilitate th e collection of  reports of suspected adverse reaction s by providing adverse reaction s forms for reporting , or  appropriate contact details for direct communication  (see VI.B.1.1.4 .).  VI.C.2.2.2. Solicited rep orts  In accordance with Art 107(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC , marketing authorisation holders shall record all  reports of suspected adverse reactions originating from within or outside the EU, which occur in post- authorisation studies , initiated, managed, or  financed  by them28.  For non -interventional post- authorisation studies, th is requirement  applies to study designs based on primary data collection  and  the guidance provided in VI.C.1.2.1. should be followed. For all solicited reports  (see VI.B.1.2. ),  marketing authorisation holders  should have mechanisms in place to record and document complete  and comprehensive case information  and to evaluate that information , in order to allow meaningful  assessment of individual cases and reporting of valid ICSRs (see VI.B.2 .) related to the studied (or  supplied) medicinal  product . Marketing authorisation holder s should therefore exercise due diligence in  establishing such system , in following -up those reports  (see VI.B.3 .) and in seeking  the view of the  primary source as regard the causal role of the studied (or supplied) medicinal product  on the notified  adverse event . Where  this opinion is missing , the marketing authorisation holder should exercise its  own judgement  based on the information available in orde r to decide whether the report is a valid  ICSR, which should be reported to the comp etent authorities.  This requirement does not apply to study  designs based on secondary use of data  since reporting of ICSRs is not required ( see VI.C.1.2.1 .).  Safety data from solicited reports to be presented in the relevant sections of the periodic safety update  report of the authorised medicinal product are detailed in Module VII .   VI.C.2.2.3. Case reports  published in the scientific l iterature   General principles in relation to the monitoring  for individual cases of suspected adverse reactions  described in the scientific  and medical literature are provide d in VI.B.1.1.2 .. As regards the screening   of the scientific and medical literature , the requirements provided in this Module are part of  the wider  literature searches which need to be conducted for periodic safety update reports (see Module VII ).  In accordance with Article 107(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC , in order to avoid the reporting of duplicate  ICSRs, marketing authorisation holders shall only report those ICSRs described in the scientific and  medical literature which is not reviewed by the Agency , for all medicinal products containing active  substances which are not in cluded in the list monitored  by the Agency pursuant to Article 27 of                                                   28 This does not concern donation of a medicinal product for research purpose if the marketing authorisation holder has no  control on the study.    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 26/90     Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. Until such lists of scientific and medical  literature and active subst ance  names  are published by the Agency, marketing authorisation holders should monitor a ll the active  substances for which they hold a marketing authorisation in the EU by accessing  a widely used  systematic literature review and reference database, in line with the principles detailed in VI.B.1.1.2 .  and in VI. Appendix  2.   Articles can be excluded from the reporting of ICSRs by the marketing authorisation holder if another  company's branded medicinal product is the suspected medicinal product. In the absence of a specified  medicinal product source and/or invented name, ownership of the medicinal product should be  assumed for arti cles about an active substance , unless alternative reasons  for exclusion  detailed  hereafter  apply :  • where ownership of the medicinal product by the marketing authorisation holder can be excluded  on the basis of the criteria detailed in VI.C.2.2 .;   • for individual case safety reports  identified in the scientific and medical literatur e that originate in a  country where a company holds a marketing authorisation but has never commercialised the  medicinal product ;  • for literature ICSRs  which are based on an  analysis from a competent authority database within  the  EU. The reporting requirements remain for th ose ICSRs which are based on the analysis from a  competent authority database outside the EU ;  • for literature articles,  which present data analyses from publicly available databases or, which  summarise results from post -authorisation studie s (see VI.C.1.2 .). This type of literature article  describes  adverse reactions , which occur  in a group of patients with a designated medicinal  product  with the aim of identifying or quantifying a safety hazard  related to a medicinal product,   and aggregated data on patients are often  presented in tables or line listings . The main objective  of those studies is to detect/evaluate specific risks that could affect the overall risk -benefit balance  of a medicinal prod uct.   New and significant safety findings presented in these articles , for which reporting is not required ,  should however be discussed in the relevant sections of the concerned periodic safety update report  (see Module VII ) and analysed as regards their overall impact on the medicinal product risk -benefit  profile. In addition, any new safety information, which ma y impact on the risk -benefit profile of a  medicinal product, should be notified immediately to the competent authorities in Member States  where the medicinal product is authorised and to the Agency in accordance with the recommendations  provided in VI.C.2.2.6 ..  A detailed guidance on the monitoring of the scientific and medical literature has been developed in  accordance with Article 27(3) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004;  it is included in VI. Appendix  2.   The electronic reporting recommendation s regarding suspected adverse reactions reports published in  the scientific and medical  literature are provided in VI.C.6.2.3.2 ..  VI.C.2.2. 4. Suspected adverse rea ctions related to quality def ect or falsified medicinal  products   When a report of suspected adverse reactions is associated with  a suspected or confirmed  falsified  medicinal product or  quality defect of a medicinal product, a valid ICSR should be reported. The  seriousness of the ICSR is linked to the seriousness of the reported suspected adverse reactions in  accor dance with the definitions provided in VI.A.2.4 .. Electronic reporting recommen dations provided  in VI.C.6.2.3.5 . should be followed.    Guideline on good ph armacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 27/90     In addition in order to protect public health, it may become necessary to implement urgent measures  such as the recall of one or more defective batc h(es) of a medicinal product from the market.  Therefore, marketing authorisation holders should have a system in place to ensure that reports of  suspected adverse reactions related to falsified medicinal products or to quality defects of a medicinal produc ts are investigated in a timely fashion and that confirmed quality defects are notified separately  to the manufacturer and to competent authorities in accordance with the provisions described in Article  13 of Directive 2003/94/EC .  VI.C.2.2.5. Suspected transmission via a medicinal product of an infectious agent   For the purposes of reporting, any suspected transmission of an infectious agent via a medicinal  produc t should be considered as a serious adverse reaction and such case s should be reported within  15 days  in accordance with the requirements outlined in VI.C.4 . 29. If no other criterion is applicable ,  the seriousness  of this ICSR should be considered as important m edical event (s ee VI.A.2.4 .). This also  applies to vaccines.  Electronic reporting recommendations provided in VI.C.6.2 .3.6. should be followed.    In the case of medicinal products derived from human blood or human plasma, haemovigilance  procedures may also apply in accordance with Directive 2002/98/EC . Therefore the marketing  authorisation holder  should have a system in place to communicate suspected transmission via a  medicinal product of an infectious agent to the manufacturer, the relevant blood establishment(s) and  national competent authorities in Member States .  Any organism, virus or infectious particle (e.g. prion protein transmitting t ransmissible spongiform  encephalopathy), pathogenic or non -pathogenic, is considered an infectious agent.   A transmission of an infect ious agent may be suspected from clinical signs or symptoms, or laboratory  findings indicating an infection in a patient exposed to a medicinal product.   Emphasis should be on the detection of infections/infectious agents known to be potentially  transmitte d via a medicinal product, but the occurrence of unknown agents should also always be  considered.   In the context of evaluating a suspected transmission of an infectious agent via a medicinal product,  care should be taken to discriminate, whenever possible, between  the cause (e.g.  injection/   admin istration) and the source (e.g.  contamination) of the infection and the clinical conditions  of the  patient at the time of the infection  (immuno -suppressed /vaccinee).   Confirmation of contamination (including inade quate inactivation/attenuation of infectious agents as  active substances) of the concerned medicinal product increases the evidence for transmission of an  infectious agent and may therefore be suggestive of a quality defect  for which the procedures detaile d  in VI.C.2.2.4 . should be applied.   Medicinal products should comply with the recommendations provided in the Note for Guidance on  Minimising the Risk of Transmitting Animal Sp ongiform Encephalopathy Age nts via Human and  Veterinary Products30. For advanced therapy medicinal products, Article 14(5)  of Regulation (EC) No  1394/2007  and the Guideline on Safety  and Efficacy Follow -up - Risk Management of Advanced  Therapy Medicinal Products31, should also be followed as appropriate .                                                   29 See VI.C.6.2.3.6 . for electronic reporting recommendations.   30 Latest revision . (Ref.: EMA/410/01 ).  31 Ref.: EMEA/149995/2008    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 28/90     VI.C.2.2.6. Emerging safety issues  Events may occur, which do not fall within the definition of reportable valid ICSRs, and thus are not  subject to the reporting requirements, even though they may lead to changes  in the known risk -benefit  balance of a medicinal product  and/or impact on public health . Examples include :  • major safety findings from a newly completed non -clinical study;  • major safety concerns identified in the course of a non-interventional post-authorisation study or of  a clinical trial;   • signal of a possible teratogen  effect or of significant hazard to public health;   • safety issues publis hed in the scientific and medical  literature;   • safety issues arising from the signal detection activity  (see Module IX) or emerging from a new  ICSR and which impact on the risk -benefit balance of the medicinal product  and/or have  implications for public health ;  • safety issues related to the use outside the terms of the marketing authorisation;   • safety issues due to misinformation in the product information ;  • marketing authorisation withdrawal, non -renewal, revocation or suspension outside the EU for  safety -related reasons;  • urgent safety restrictions outside the EU ;  • safety issues in relation to the supply of ra w material;   • lack of supply of medicines .  These events/observations , which may affect the risk -benefit balance of a medicinal product, are  not to  be submitted as ICSRs. They should be notified  as emerging safety issues in writing to the competent  authorities in Member States where the medicinal product i s authorised and to the Agency  via email  (P-PV-emerging- safety -issue@ema.europa.eu ); this should be done  immediately when becoming   aware of them . The document should indicate the points of concern and the actions proposed in  relation to the marketing  application/ authorisation  for the concerned medicinal product . Those safety  issues should also be analysed in the relevant sections of the periodic safety update report of the  authorised medicinal product.   VI.C.2.2.7. Period between the s ubmission of the m arketing authorisation application and  the granting of the m arketing authorisation   In the period between the submission of the marketing authorisation application and the granting of  the marketing  authorisation , information  (quality, non -clinical , clinical ) that could impact on the risk - benefit balance  of the medicinal product under evaluation  may b ecome available to the applicant32. It  is the responsibility of the applicant to ensure that this information is immediately submitted  in  accordance with the modalities described in VI.C.2.2. 6. to the competent authorities in  the Me mber  States where the application is under assessment (including Reference Member  State and all  concerned Member States for products assessed under the mutual recognition or decentralised  procedures)  and to the Agency . For appl ications  under the centralised procedure, the information  should  also be provided to the (Co-) Rapporteur.                                                    32 See also chapter 1, section 5.1.1 of Volume 2A (Notice to Applicants) of The Rules Governing Medicinal Produ cts in the  European Union.  http://ec.europa.eu/health/documents/eudralex/vol- 2/index_en.htm.    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 29/90     In the situation where a medicinal product application is under evaluation in the EU while it has already  been authorised in a third country, v alid ICSRs from outside the EU , originating from unsolicited  reports (see VI.B.1.1 .) or solicited reports (s ee VI.B.1.2 .), should be reported in accordance with the  requirements provided in VI.C.3 ., VI.C.4 . and VI.C.6 ..   VI.C.2.2.8. Period after suspension, revocation or withdrawal of marketing authorisation   The marketing authorisation holder  shall continue to collect any  reports of  suspected advers e reaction s  related to the concerned medicinal product following the suspension of a marketing authorisation. The  reporting requirements outlined  in VI.C.4 . remain.   Where a marketing authorisation is withdrawn or revoked, the former marketing authorisation holder  is  encouraged to continue to collect spontaneous reports of suspected adverse reactions originating  within the EU to for example  facilitate the review of delayed onset adverse reactions or  of  retrospective ly notified cases.   VI.C.2.2.9. Period during a public health emergency   A public health emergency is a public health threat duly recognised either by the World Health  Organization (WHO) or the Community in the framework of Decision No. 2119/98/EC  as amended  of  the European Parliament and of the Council. In the event of a public health emergency, regular  reporting requirements may be amended. Such arrangem ents will be considered on a case -by-case  basis and will be appropriately notified on the Agency website.   VI.C.2.2.10. Reports from class action law suits   Stimulated r eport s arising from class action law suits should be managed  as spontaneous  reports. Valid  ICSRs  should  describe adverse reactions related to the concerned  medicinal product. They  should be  reported in accordance with the time frames and modalities described in VI.C.3 ., VI.C.4 . and VI.C.6 ..  Where large batches of potential ICSRs are received, marketing authorisation holders may request , in  exceptional circumstances, for  an exemption in order to submit serious cases of suspected adverse  reactions within 30 days from their date of receipt instead of 15 days. The 90 days reporting time  frame for non -serious ICSRs remains unchanged. It will be possible to apply for t his exemption  only  once the functionalities of the Eudr aVigilance database specified in Article 24(2) of Regulation (EC) No  726/2004 are established. The request should be made to the Agency ’s pharmacovigilance  department .  VI.C.2.2.1 1. Reports from p atient support programme s and market research programme s  A patient support programme is an organised system  where a marketing authorisation holder receives   and collects  information relating to the use of its  medicinal product s. Examples are post -authorisation  patient support and disease management programmes, survey s of patients and healthcare providers,  information gathering on patient compliance, or compensation/re -imbursement schemes.   A market research programme refers to  the systematic collection, recording and analysis by a  marketing authorisation holder of dat a and findings  about its medicinal products , relevant for   marketing and business development.   Safety reports originating from those programmes should be considered as solicited reports. Marketing  authorisation holders should have the same mechanism s in pla ce as for  all other  solicited reports  (see  VI.C.2.2.2 .) to manage that information  and report valid cases of adverse reactions,  which are  suspected to be related to  the concerned medicinal product.    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 30/90     Valid ICSRs  shoul d be reported as solicited  in accordance with the electronic reporting requirements  provided in VI.C.6.2.3.7 ..  VI.C.3. Reporting time frames   The g eneral rules in relation to the reporting  of initial and follow -up reports , including those for   defining the c lock start are detailed in  VI.B.7..  According to Articles 107(3) and 107a(4) of Directive 2001/83/EC ,   • serious valid ICSRs shall be reported by competent authorities in Member States or by marketing  authorisation holders within 15 days from the  date of receipt of the reports;   • non-serious valid ICSRs shall  be reported by competent authorities in  Member States or  by  marketing authorisation holders within 90 days from the  date of receipt of the reports .   This should be done in accordance with the reporting modalities detailed in VI.C.4 ..  VI.C.4. Reporting modalities   In addition to the recommendations provided in VI.B.8., competent authorities in Member States and  marketing authorisation holders  shall use the format s, standards and terminologies  for the electronic  transmission of suspected adverse reactions as referred to in  chapter  IV of the Commission  Implementing Regulation (EU) No 520/2012. ICSRs shall be used for reporting to the Eudravigilance  database suspected adverse reactions to a medicinal product that occur in a single patient at a specific  point in time  [IR Art 27 ]. Competent a uthorities in Member States and marketing authorisation holders   shall also ensure that all  reported electronic ICSRs are well documented and as complete as possible in  accordance with the requirements provided in [ IR Art 28].   The time frames for reporting serious and non- serious valid ICSRs are provided in VI.C.3 .. The  recommendations provided in  VI.C.6. should be adhered  to as regards the electronic exchange of  pharmacovi gilance information between competent authorities in  Member States, marketing  authorisation holders  and the Agency.   ICSRs reported electronically  to the EudraVigilance database  will be made accessible to stakeholders  such as competent authorities , healthca re professionals,  consumers, as well as marketing authorisation  holders  and research organisations in accordance with Article 24(2) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004  and the EudraVigilance Access Policy for Medicines for Human Use33. This p olicy defines the ov erall  principles of the provision of access to EudraVigilance data in line with the current legal framework ,  while guaranteeing personal data protection . As detailed in  the EudraVigilance access policy , a  selection of ICSRs c ould be downloaded by marketing  authorisation holders in ICH E2B format and in  accordance with the ICH M2 message specifications, t o facilitate their pharmacovigilance activities.   VI.C.4.1. Interim  arrangement s  In accordance with the provisions set out in Article 2 (4), Article 2(5)  and Article 2(6)  of Directive  2010/84/ EU, until the Agency can ensure the functionalities of the EudraVigilance database as  specified in Article 24(2) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, the following reporting requirements shall   apply to valid unsolicited and solicited ICSRs  reported by healthcare professional s and non- healthcare  professional s. This is independently of the condition of use of the suspected medicinal product and of  the expectedness of the adverse reaction .                                                   33 http://www.ema.europa.eu    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 31/90     a. Serious ICSRs   • Marketing authorisation h olders  shall report all serious ICSRs that occur in the EU to the competent  authority of the Member State on whose territory the suspected adverse reaction s occur red.  • Marketing authorisation holders shall report  to the EudraVigilance database all serious I CSRs that  occur outside  the EU , including those received from competent authorities . If required  by Member  States , those reports sh all also be submitted to the competent authorities in the Member States  in  which the medicinal product is authorised.   • Competent authorities in Member State s shall ensure that all serious ICSRs that occur in their  territory and that are reported to them, including those received from marketing authorisation  holders, are  made available to the EudraVigilance database.  Competent aut horities in Member  States should also make available , to the marketing authorisation holders of the suspected  medicinal products, all serious ICSRs  reported directly to them .  b. Non-Serious ICSRs   • If required by Member States , marketing authorisation holder s shall report all non -serious ICSRs  that occur in the EU to the competent authority of  the Member State on who se territory the  suspected adverse reactions occurred .  Overviews  of the reporting requirements of serious and non -serious reports during the inte rim period,   applicable to marketing authorisation holders or competent authorities in Member States, are   presented in VI.App 3.1., together with a detailed business process map.   Member States reporting requirem ents for serious non -EU ICSRs and for non- serious EU ICSRs are also   included in  this Appendix .   VI.C.4.2. Final arrangement s  Once the functionalities of the EudraVigilance database specified in Article 24(2) of Regulation (EC) No  726/2004 are established,  the following requirements , detailed in Articles 107(3) and 107a(4) of  Directive 2001/83/EC , shall apply within 6 months of the announcement by the Agency  to valid  unsolicited and solicited ICSRs reported by healthcare professional s and non- healthcare prof essional s.  This is  independently of the condition of use of the suspected medicinal product and of the  expectedness of the adverse reaction .  a. Serious ICSRs   • Marketing authorisation holders shall submit  all serious ICSRs that occur  within or outside the EU ,  including those received from competent authorit ies outside the EU , to the EudraVigilance database  only.  • Competent authorities in Member States shall submit  to the EudraVigilance database  all serious  ICSRs  that occur  in their territory  and that are direc tly reported to them .  b. Non-Serious ICSRs    • Marketing authorisation holders shall submit  all non-serious ICSRs that occur in the EU  to the  EudraVigilance database only .  • Competent authorities in Member States shall submit  all non-serious ICSRs that occur  in their  territory  to the EudraVigilance database .   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 32/90     Overviews  of the reporting requirements of serious and non -serious reports, applicable to marketing  authorisation holders or compete nt authorities in Member States  once the final arrangement s are  implemented,  are presented in VI.App 3.2., together with a detailed business process map.   In accord ance with the requirement detailed  in Article 24(4)  of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 for the  final arrangements , the ICSRs sub mitted to the EudraVigilance database by marketing authorisation  holders shall be automatically  transmitted  upon receipt , to the competent authority of the Member  State where the reaction occurred. A d etailed business process map  is included in VI.App 3.3..  VI.C.5. Collaboration with the World Health Organization and the European  Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction  The Agency shall make available to the WHO (in practice the WHO  Collabora ting Cent re for  International Drug Monitoring ) all suspected adverse reaction reports occurring in the EU  [REG Art  28c(1)]. This will take place on a weekly basis  after their transmission to the EudraVigilance database  by competent authorities in Member States or marketing authorisation holders . It will replace the  requirements of Member States participating in the WHO Programme for International Drug Monitoring  to directly report to WHO suspected adverse reaction s reports occurring in their territory . This will be  implemented once the functionalities of the EudraVigilance database specified in Article 24(2) of  Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 are established .  A detailed business process map  for the reporting of ICSRs, from the EudraVigilance database to the  WHO Collabora ting Centre  for International Drug Monitoring , is presented in VI. Appendix  4.  The Agency and the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction shall  also exchange  information that they receive on  the abuse of medicinal products including information related to illicit  drugs  [REG Art 28c (2)].  VI.C.6. El ectronic exchange of safety information in the EU   VI.C.6 . highlights  the requirements , as defined in Articles 24(1) and 24(3) of Regulation (EC) No  726/2004,  for the establishment and maintenance of the European database and data processing  network (the EudraVigilance database) in order to collate and share pharmacovigilance information  electronically between competent authorities in Member States, ma rketing authorisation holder s and  the Agency, in ways which ensure the quality and integrity of the data collected .  The information provided here is relevant for the electronic exchange  of ICSRs in  the EU  between all  stakeholders  and for the electronic sub mission of information on medicinal products to the Agency .   VI.C.6.1. Applicable guidelines, definitions , international formats,  standards and terminologies   For the classification, retrieval, presentation, risk -benefit evaluation and assessment, electron ic  exchange and communication of pharmacovigilance and medicinal product information, Member States, marketing authorisation holders and the Agency sh all adher e to the legal requirements   provided in c hapter IV of the Commission Implementing Regulation (EU)  No 520/2012.   In addition the following guidelines should be applied:   • Note for guidance -  EudraVigilance Human -  Processing of Safety M essages and Individual Case  Safety Reports (ICSRs)  (EMA/H/20665/04/Final Rev. 2 ) (EudraVigilance Business Rules);    Guideline on good pharmacovi gilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 33/90     • Note for Guidance on the Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) of Individual Case Safety Reports  (ICSRs) and Medicinal Products (MPRS) in  Pharmacovigilance during the pre-  and post - authorisation phase in the European economic area (EEA)  (EMEA/115735/2004 );  • The ICH guidelines detailed in VI.B.8 .;  • The ICH-M5 guideline ‘Routes of Administration Controlled Vocabulary’  (CHMP/ICH/175860/2005 ),  which provides standard terms for routes of administration;   The latest version of these documents should always be considered .  VI.C.6.2. Electronic reporting of individual case safety reports   The reporting of valid ICSRs  electronically , by competent authorities in Member States and marketing  authorisation holders , is mandatory for all medicinal products authorised in the EU  [DIR Art 107(3), Art  107a(4) ]. Non -adherence to this requirement constitutes a non-compliance with EU legislation.   Responsibilities in case of communication failure  (including adherence  to compliance  for reporting) are  detailed in c hapter IV of the Note for Guidance on the Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) of Individual  Case Safety Reports (ICSRs) and Medi cinal Product Reports (MPRs) in Pharmacovigilance during the  Pre- and Post -authorisation Phase in the European Economic Area (EEA)  (EMEA/115735/2004 ).   Technical tools (EVWEB) have been made available by the Agency to interested el ectronic data  interchange  partners, including  small and medium -sized enterprises, to facilitate compliance with the  electronic reporting requirements  as defined in EU legislation.  Information is available on  EudraVigilance website34.   VI.C.6.2.1. EudraVigilance Database Modules   Two modules are available in the EudraVigilance  database  to address the collection of reports of  suspected adverse reactions re lated to medicinal products for human use, in accordance with EU  legislation:   • EudraVigilance Post -Authorisation Module (EVPM) , implemented based on  the requirements  defined  in Regul ation (EC) No 726/2004 and Directive 2001/83/EC ; and  • EudraVigilance  Clinica l Trial Module (EVCTM), implemented based on the requirements defined in  Directive 2001/20/EC .  VI.C.6.2.1.1. Adverse reaction data collect ed in the EudraVigilance Post -Author isation  Module   The adverse reaction reports collected in the EudraVigilance Post -Authorisation Module ( EVPM ) refer to  unsolicited  reports  and solicited reports which do not fall under the scope of the Clinica l Trials Directive  2001/20/EC (s ee VI.C.1 .). The ICSRs should be submitted with the va lue 'EVHUMAN' in the  data  element  ‘Message receiver identifier ’ (ICH M2 M.1.6).   Depending on their type , these ICSRs  should be classified  with one of the following options , in  accordance with the EudraVigilance Business Rules35:  • Data element ‘Type of report ’ (ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.4) :  − spontaneous report ;                                                   34 http://eudravigilance.ema.europa.eu   35 Note for guidance -  EudraVigilance Human -  Processing of Safety Messages and Individual Case Safety Reports (ICSRs)   (EMA/H/20665 /04/Final Rev. 2 ).   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 34/90     − other;  − not available to sender (unknown) ; or  − report from study .  • In addition, w hen the value in the data element ICH -E2B(R2) A.1.4 is  ‘Report from study’, the d ata  element ‘Study type in w hich the reaction(s)/event (s) were observed’ (ICH -E2B(R2) A.2.3.3)   should be populated with:   − individual patient use, e.g. compassion ate use or named -patient basis;  or  − other studies, e.g. pharmacoepidemiology, pharmacoeconomics, intensive monitoring, PMS .  VI.C.6.2.1.2. Adverse reaction data collected in the EudraVigilance Clinical Trial Module    Only cases of suspected unexpected serious adverse reactions (SUSARs ), related to investigational  medicinal products  studied in clinical trials  which fall  under the scope of  Directive 2001/20/ EC (see  VI.C.1 .), should be reported by the sponsor to t he EudraVigilance Clinical Trial Module (EVCTM) . The  requirements provided in c hapter II of EudraLex Volume 10 of The Rules Governing Medicinal Products  in the European Union  should be applied . The ICSRs should be submitted with the value 'EVCTMPROD'  in the data element ‘M essage receiver identifier ’ (ICH M2 M.1.6) and should be  classified as followed ,  in accordance with the EudraVigilance Business Rules36:  • data element ‘Type of report’ (ICH -E2B(R2) A.1.4):   − report from study ; and  • data element ‘Study type in w hich the reaction(s)/event(s) w ere observed’ (ICH -E2B(R2) A.2.3.3):   − clinical tr ials.  VI.C.6.2.2. Preparation of individual case safety reports   VI.C.6.2.2.1. General principles   The content of e ach valid ICSR transmitted electronically  between all stakeholders should comply with  the legal requirements and guidelines detailed in  the Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No  520/2012 and in VI.C.6.1 ., particularly:   • the requirements provided  in chapter s IV and V  of the Commission Implementing Regulation (EU)  No 520/2012;   • the latest version of the ICH-Endorsed Guide for MedDRA U sers - MedDRA Term Selection: Points  to Consider Document  (see GVP Annex IV );  • the EudraVigilance business rules for the electronic transmission of ICSRs detailed in the Note for  Guidance - EudraV igilance Human -  Processing of Safety Messages and Individual Case S afety  Reports (ICSRs) (EMA/H/20665/04/Final Rev. 2 ).  It is recognised that it is often difficult to obtain all the details on a specific case. Howe ver, the  complete information  (medical and administrative data) for a valid  ICSR that is available to the sender  should  be reported in a struct ured manner in the relevant ICH -E2B(R2) data elements  (see GVP Annex  IV) (which should be repeated as necessary  when multiple  information is available ) and in the                                                   36 See Footnote 38 .   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 35/90     narrative section (see VI.C.6.2.2.4 .). This applies to all types of ICSRs, such as  reports with initial  information on the case, follow -up information  and cases highlighted for nullification37.   In the situation where it is evident that the sender has not transmitted the complete information  available on the case , the receiver may request the sender to re- transmit the ICSR within 24 hours  with the complete case information in electronic format in accordance with the requirements applicable  for the electronic reporting of ICSRs. This sh ould be seen in the light of the qualitative signal detection  and evaluation  activity , where it is important for the receiver to have all the available information on a  case to perform the medical assessment  (see VI.C.6.2.4 .).  Where the suspected adverse reaction s reported in a single  ICSR impact on the known risk -benefit  balance of a medicinal product, this should be considered as  an emerging safety issue (see  VI.C.2.2.6 .), which  should be immediately notified in writing  to the competent authorities of the  Member States where the medicinal product is authorised and to the Agency. This is i n addition to the  reporting requirements detailed in VI.C.4 .. A summary of the points of concerns and the action  proposed should be recorded in the ICSR in data element ‘Sender’s comments’ (ICH -E2B(R2) B.5.4).   VI.C.6.2.2.2. Information on suspect, interacting  and concomitant medicinal products   The suspect, interacting and/or concomitant active substances /invented name s of the reported  medicinal products  should be provided in accordance with IR Art 28 (3) (g) to (i), ICH-E2B(R2) (see  GVP Annex IV ) and the EudraVigilance Business Rules.   The characterisation of medicinal products as suspect, interacting or concomitant is based on the  information provided by primary source.   For combination medicinal products, which contain more than one active substance, each active substance needs to be reflected individually in the data element ‘Active substance name(s)’ (ICH E2B(R2) B.4.k.2.2), which needs to be repeated for each active s ubstance contained in the  combination medicinal product.   When the primary source reports a suspect or interacting branded/proprietary medicinal product name  without indicating the active substance (s) of the medicinal product and where the proprietary  medic inal product can be one of two or more possible generics, which have a different composition  depending on the country where the medicinal product is marketed, the ICSR should be populated as  follows:   • data element 'Proprieta ry medicinal product name' (ICH -E2B(R2) B.4.k.2.1) should be populated  with the proprietary/branded medicinal product name as reported by the primary source;   • data element 'Active substance name(s)' (ICH -E2B(R2) B.4.k.2.2) should be completed with th e  active substance (s) that correspond (s) to the composition of the proprietary/branded medicinal  product of the country where the reaction/event occurred.   However i f the information is available on :  • the 'Identification of the country where the drug was obtained' (data  element ICH E2B(R2)  B.4.k. 2.3),  • the 'Authorization/application number' (data  element ICH -E2B(R2) B.4.k.4.1),   • the 'Country of authorization/application' (data element ICH -E2B(R2) B.4.k.4.2) , and/or   • the 'Batch/lot number' (dat a element ICH -E2B(R2) B.4.k.3),                                                    37 See also VI.C.6.2.2.10 . on nullification of individual cases.    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 36/90     the composition with rega rd the active substance(s) of the proprietary medicinal product should be  provided accordingly.   Where the primary source reports a suspect or interacting branded/proprietary medicinal product name  without indicating the pharmaceutical form/presentation of the product and where the  proprietary/branded medicinal product can be one of two or more possible pharmaceutical  forms/presentations, which have different composition s in a country , the ICSR should be populated as  follows:   • data element 'Proprieta ry medici nal product name' (ICH -E2B(R2) B.4.k.2.1) should be populated  with the medicinal product name as reported by the primary source;   • data element 'Active substance name(s)' (ICH-E2B(R2) B.4.k.2.2) should be completed with those  active substances which are in common to all pharmaceutical forms/presentations in the country of  authorisation.   Where medicinal products cannot be described on the basis of the active substances or the invented  name s, for example when  only the therapeutic class is reported by the primar y source, or  in case of  other administered therapies that cannot be structured, this information should only be reflected in t he  case narrative  (data element ICH -E2B(R2) B.5.1) . The data elements ‘Proprietary medicinal product  name’ (ICH -E2B(R2) B.4.k.2.1)  and ‘Active substance name(s)’ (ICH -E2B(R2) B.4.k.2.2) should not be  populated.  The same applies if a suspected food interaction is reported (e.g.  to grapefruit juice).   Where  a case of  adverse reaction s is reported to be related only to a therapeutic cla ss, it is considered  incomplete and does not qu alify for reporting (s ee VI.B.2.). Efforts should be made  to follow -up the  case in order to collect the missing information regarding the  suspected medicinal product (see  VI.B.3 .).   As regards the reporting of drug interactions, which concerns  drug/drug (including biological products),  drug/food, drug/device, and drug/alcohol interactions, the coding of the interaction should be   performed in s ection ‘Reactions/Events’ (ICH -E2B(R2) B.2) in line with the latest version of the ICH- Endorsed Guide for MedDRA U sers - MedDRA Term Selection: Points to Consider Document  (see GVP  Annex IV ). In addition, for drug/drug interactions, information on the active su bstances/ proprietary  medicinal product  name s should be provided in the s ection ‘Drug information’ ( ICH-E2B(R2)  B.4),  which should be characterised  as interacting  in the data element ‘Char acterisation of drug role’ (ICH - E2B(R2) B.4.k.1) .   If the primary source suspects a possible causal role of one of the ingredients  (e.g., excipient or  adjuvant)  of the suspected medicinal product, this information should be provided in the section ‘Drug  information’ ( ICH-E2B(R2) B.4 ) as a separate entry  in addition to the information given regarding the  suspected medicinal product . This  should also be specified  in the case narrative (data element ICH - E2B(R2) B.5.1) . If available, test s results (positive or negative) in relation to the causal role  of the  suspected ingredient should be included in t he section 'Results of tests and procedures relevant to the  investigation of the patient'  (ICH E2B(R2) B.3).   VI.C.6.2.2.3. Suspected adverse re action s  All available information as described in [I R Art 28 (3)  (j)] shall be provided for each individual case.  The coding of diagnoses and provisional diagnoses with signs and symptoms in the data element  'Reaction/event in MedDRA terminology (Lowest Le vel Term)' (ICH -E2B(R2) B.2.i.1) should be  performed in line with the latest version of the ICH-Endorsed Guide for MedDRA Users, MedDRA Term  Selection: Points to Consider  (see GVP Annex IV ).    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 37/90     In practice, if a diagnosis is reported with characteristic signs and symptoms, the preferred option  is to  select a term for the diagnosis only  and to MedDRA code it  in the ICH -E2B(R2) section B.2  'Reaction(s)/event(s)' . If no diagnosis is provided, all reported signs and symptoms should be lis ted  and MedDRA coded in the ICH -E2B(R2) section B.2 'Reaction(s)/event(s)'. I f these signs and  symptoms are typically part of a diagnosis , the diagnosis can be  MedDRA coded  in addition  by  competent authorities i n Member States or marketing authorisation holders  in the ICH -E2B(R2) data  element  B.5.3 ‘Sender's diagnosis/syndrome and/or reclassification of reaction/event '.   If in the narrative other events have been reported, which are not typically signs or symptom s of the  primary source's diagnosis or provisional diagnosis, and those events are suspected to be adverse  reactions, they should also be lis ted and MedDRA coded in the ICH -E2B(R2) section B.2  'Reaction(s)/event(s)'.   In case  a competent authority  in a Memb er State or a marketing authorisation holder  disagrees  with  the diagnosis reported  by the primary source, an alternative diagnosis can  be provided in the ICH - E2B(R2)  data element  B.5.3 ‘Sender's diagnosis/syndrome and/or reclassification of reaction/event ’ in  addition  to the reported diagnosis provided in the ICH -E2B(R2) section B.2 'Reaction(s)/event(s)' . In  this situation, a  reasoning should be included in the data element ‘Sender’s comments’ (ICH -E2B(R2)  B.5.4)  (see VI.C.6.2.2.4 .).  In the event of death of the patient, the  date, cause of death including autopsy -determined causes  shall be provided as available  [IR 28 ( 3) (l)]. If the death is unrelated to the reported suspected  adverse reaction (s) and is linked for example to disease progression , the seriousness criterion of the  ICSR should not be considered as fatal; the recommendation provided in the EudraVigilance Business  Rules  should be followed.   VI.C.6.2.2.4. Case narrative , causality assessment  and comments   In accordance with [IR Art  28 (3) (m)], a case narrative (data element ICH -E2B(R2)  B.5.1) shall be  provided, where poss ible38, for all cases with the exception of non -serious cases. The information shall  be presented in a logical time sequence, in the chronology of the patient’s experience including clinical course, therapeutic measures, outcome and follow -up information ob tained.  Any relevant autopsy or  post-mortem findings shall also be summarised .  The narrative  should be presented in line with the recommendations described in c hapter 5.2 of ICH - E2D (see GVP Annex IV ). In this aspect, it should serve as a comprehensive, st and-alone “medical  report” containing all known relevant clinical and related information, including patient characteristics,  therapy details, medical history, clinical course of the event(s), diagnosis, adverse reactions and their  outcomes, relevant labor atory evidence (including normal ranges) and any other information that  supports or refutes the  suspected adverse reaction s. An example of a standard narrative template is  available  in the Report of the CIOMS Working Group V39.   The information provided in the narrative  should be consistent with the data appropriately  reflected in  all the other relevant ICH -E2B(R2) data elements of the ICSR  (see GVP Annex IV) .   During the interim arrangements (see VI.C.4.1 .), the case narratives included  in the ICSRs submitted  to the competent authorities in Member States  by marketing authorisation holder s, should not be  modifie d or deleted when the ICSRs are forwarded to the EudraVigilance dat abase by the competent  authori ties.                                                   38 ‘Where possible’ should be interpreted as having received sufficient information from the primary sou rce to prepare a  concise clinical summary of the individual case.   39 Council for International Organizations of Medical Sciences (CIOMS). Current Challenges in Pharmacovigilance: Pragmatic  Approaches (CIOMS V). Geneva: CIOMS; 2001. http://www.cioms.ch/ .   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 38/90     Where available, comments from the primary source on the diagnosis, causality assessment or other  relevant issue, should be provided in the data element ‘Reporter’s  comments’ (ICH -E2B(R2) B.5. 2).  Competent authorities in Member States and marketing a uthorisation holders may provide an  assessment of the case and describe a disagreement with, and/or alternatives to the diagnoses given  by the primary source  (see VI.C.6.2.2.3 .). This should be done in the data element ‘Sender’s  comments’ (ICH -E2B(R2) B.5.4) , where discrepancies or confusion s in the information  notified  by the  primary source  may also be highlighted.  Where applicable, a summary of the points of concerns and  action s proposed should also be  included in the data element ‘Sender’s comments’ (ICH -E2B(R2)  B.5.4) , if the ICSR leads to notification of an e merging safety issue (see VI.C.2.2.6 .). The degree of  suspected relatedness of each medicinal produ ct to the adverse reaction(s) may be indicated in the  data element ‘Relatedness of drug to reaction(s)/event(s)’ (ICH -E2B(R2) B.4.k.18), which should be  repeated as necessary. This also allows presenting the degree of relatedness from different sources or   with different  methods of assessment.   VI.C.6.2.2.5. Test results   Results of tests and procedures relevant to the investigation of the patient shall be provided [IR Art 28  (3) (k)].   As described in  ICH-E2B(R2)  (see GVP Annex IV ), the section B.3 'Results of  tests and procedures  relevant to the investigation of the patient' should capture the tests and procedures performed to  diagnose or confirm the reaction/event, including those tests done to investigate (exclude) a non -drug  cause, (e.g., serologic tests fo r infectious hepatitis in suspected drug -induced hepatitis). Both positive  and negative results should be reported.   The coding of investigations should be performed in line with the latest version of the ICH-Endorsed  Guide for MedDRA Users, MedDRA Term Selection: Points to Consider  (see GVP Annex IV) . If it is not  possible to provide information on tests and test results in a structured manner , provisions have been  made to  allow for the  transmi ssion of  the information as fr ee text in the data element ICH -E2B(R2)  B.3.2. 'Results of tests and procedures relevant to the investigation'.   VI.C.6.2.2.6. Supplementary information   Key information from supplementary records should be provided in th e relevant section of the ICSR ,  and their availability should be mentioned in the data element ‘List of  documents held by sender’ (ICH - E2B(R2)  A.1.8.2).   Other known case identifiers relevant for the detection of duplicates should be presented  systematical ly in the data element ‘Other case identifiers in previous transmissions’ (ICH -E2B(R2)  A.1.11).  VI.C.6.2.2.7. Follow -up information   ICSRs are sent at different times to multiple receiver s. Therefore the initial/follow -up status is  dependent  upon the receiv er. For this reason an item to capture follow -up status is not included in the  ICH-E2B(R2)  data elements. However, the data element  ‘Date of receipt of the most recent information  for this report’ ( ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.7) taken together with the data element  ‘Sender identifier’ ( ICH  E2B(R2)  A.3.1.2) and  the data element ‘S ender’s (case) report unique identifier’ ( ICH-E2B(R2)   A.1.0.1) provide a mechanism for each receiver to identify  whether the report being transmitted is an  initial or a follow -up report. For th is reason these items are  considered critical for each transmission  and a precise date should always be used (i.e. day, month, year).  The data element ‘Date of receipt of  the most recent information for this report’ (ICH -E2B(R2) A.1.7)  should therefore always be updated   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 39/90     each time a follow -up information is received by a competent authority or a marketing authorisation  holder , independently whether the follow -up information received is significant enough to be reported .  The data element ‘Date report was firs t received from the source’ (ICH -E2B(R2) A.1. 6) should remain  unchanged to the date the  competent authority or the marketing authorisation holder became aware of  the initial report .  New information should be clearly identifiable in the case narrative (data element ICH -E2B(R2) B.5.1)  and provided in a structured format in the applicable ICH -E2B(R2)  data elements .  Competent authorities in Member States or marketing authorisation holders  should report follow -up  information if significant new medical information has been received. Significant new information  relates to for example new suspected adverse reaction(s), a change in the causality assessment and  any new or updated information on the case that impacts on its  medical interpretation. Therefore, the  identi fication of significant new information requiring to be reported always necessitate s medical   judgement.   Situations where the seriousness criteria and/or the causality assessment are downgraded (e.g. follow - up information leads to a change of the seriousnes s criteria from serious to non -serious; causality  assessment is changed from related to non -related) should also be  considered as significant change s  and thus reported  (see VI.B.7.1 . for reporting time frames) .  In addition, competent authorities in Member States or marketing authorisation holders should also  report follow -up information, where new administrative information is available, that could impact on  the case management ; for example,  if new case identif iers have become known to the sender, which  may have been used in previous transmissions (data element  ‘Other case identifiers in previous  transmissions’  (ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.11) ). This information may be specifically relevant to manage  potential duplicates. A nother example refers to data element ‘Additional available documents held by  sender ’ (ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.8) , whereby new documents that have become available to the sender may  be relevant for the medical assessment of the case.   In contrast, a follow -up repor t which contain s non-significant information  does not require to be  report ed. This may refer , for exa mple, to minor changes to some  dates in the case with no implication  for the evaluation  or transmission  of the case , or corrections of typographical errors  in the previous  case version.  Medical judge ment should be applied since a change to the birth date may  constitute a  significant modification  (e.g. with implications on the age information of the patient).  Similarly, a   change of the status of a MedDRA code /term from current to non -current , due to a version change of  MedDRA , can be considered as a non -significant change as long as this change has no impact on the  medica l content of a case. However, an amendment of the MedDRA coding due to a change in the  interpretation of a previously reported suspected adverse reaction may constitute a significant change  and therefore should be reported.   In situations where the case is modified  without impacting  on its medical evaluation, while no new  follow -up is received ( e.g., for correcting a mistake  or typographical error ), the date of receipt of the  most recent information reported in the data element ‘Date of receipt of the most recent in formation  for this report’ (ICH -E2B(R2) A.1.7 ) should not be changed. T his data e lement should  however  be  updated in any other situations , to the date when new follow -up information is received ( independently  whether it is significant or not) or to the date when changes are made  which impact on the   interpretation  of the case .  Where fol low-up information of a case initially reported by a marketing authorisation holder is received   directly  by a competent authority, the ‘Worldwide unique c ase identification number’ (ICH -E2B(R2)  A.1.10) of the initial report should be mainta ined, in adheren ce with ICH -E2B(R2) (see GVP Annex IV ).   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 40/90     The same principle should be applied if a follow -up is received by a marketing authorisation holder of a  case initially reported by a competent authority .   VI.C.6.2.2.8. What to take into account for data privacy law s  To detect, assess, understand and prevent adverse reactions and to identify , and take actions to  reduce the risks of, and increase the benefits from medicinal products for the purpose of safeguarding  public health, the processing of personal data within the EudraVigilance database is possible while  respecting EU legislation in relation to data protection (Directive 95/46/EC, Regulation (EC)  No  45/2001).   Where in accordance with applicable national legislation, information related to personal data  cannot  be transferred to the EudraVigilance database , pseudonymisation may be applied by competent  authorities in Member States and by marketing authorisation holders, thereby replacing identifiable  personal  data such as name and address with pseudonyms or key co des, for example in accordance  with the ISO Technical Specification DD  ISO/TS 25237:2008, Health informatics –  Pseudonymization   [IR Recital 17 ]. The application of pseudonymisation will facilitate the ability of the EudraVigilance  system to adequately support case processing and detect duplicates. This should however be done  without impairing the information flow in the EudraVigilance database  and the interpretation and  evaluation of safety data relevant for the protection of public health; given the high -level nature of the  information,  data element s such as patient's age, age group and gender should in principle be kept un - redacted/visible.   VI.C.6.2.2.9. Handling of l anguages   The ICH-E2B(R2)  (see GVP Annex IV) concept for the electronic reporting of ICSR s is based on the fact  that structured and coded information is used for data outputs of pharmacovigilance systems (e.g.  listings) and for signal detection. However, for scientific case assessment and signal evaluation, the  medical summary provided in the data element ‘Case narrative including clinical course, therapeutic  measures, outcome and additional relevant information’  (ICH-E2B(R2) B.5.1) is normally required  (see  VI.6.2.2.4 .).   Where suspected adver se reactions are reported by the primary source in narrative and textual  descriptions in an official language of the Union other than English, the original verbatim text and the  summary thereof in English shall be provided by the marketing authorisation holder40. Member States  may report case narratives in their official language (s). For  those reports, case translations shall  be  provided when requested by the Agency or other Member States for the evaluation of potential signals.   For suspected adverse reactio ns originating outside the EU, English shall be used in the ICSR  [IR 28  (4)].   Additional documents held by the sender, which may be only available in a local language, should only  be translated if requested by the receiver.   VI.C.6.2.2.10. Nullification of cases   In line with ICH-E2B(R2)  (see GVP Annex IV ), the nullification of individual cases should be used to  indicate that a previously transmitted report should be considered completely void (nullified), for  example when the whole case was found to be erro neous or in case of duplicate reports. It is essential  to use the same case report number s previously submitted in the data element  ‘Sender’s (case) safety                                                   40 In practice, the original verbatim text reported by the primary source in an official language of the Union other than  English should be included in the ICSR, if it is requested by the Member State where the reaction oc curred or by the  Agency.    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 41/90     report unique identifier’  (ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.0.1)  and in the data element  ‘Worldwide unique case  identification number’  (ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.10) .   A nullified case is one that should no longer be considered for scientific evaluation.  The process of the  nullification of a case is by means of a notification by the sender to the receiver that this is no longer a  valid case. However, the case should be re tained in the sender’s pharmacovigilance database  for  auditing purposes .   The principles to be considered when nullifying a case are detailed in VI. Appendix  5.  VI.C.6.2.3. Special situations   VI.C.6.2.3.1. Use of a medicinal product during pregnancy or breastfeeding   General re commendations  are provided in VI.B.6.1..  With regard to the electronic reporting of parent -child/foetus  cases, the following should be adhered  to:  • In the situation  where a foetus or nursing infant is exposed to one or several medicinal products  through the parent and experiences one or more suspected  adverse reactions (other than early  spontaneous abortion/f oetal demise) , information on both the parent and the child/foetus should  be provided in the same report. T hese cases are refe rred to as parent -child/foetus  reports.  The  information provided in the section ‘Patients characteristics’ (ICH -E2B(R2) B.1) appli es only to the  child/foetus. The characteristics concerning the parent (mother or father), who was the source of exposure to the suspect medicinal product should be provided in the data element ‘For a parent - child/fetus report, information concerning the p arent’ ( ICH-E2B(R2) B.1.10). If both parents are  the source of the suspect drug(s) then the case should reflect the mother’s information in the data element ‘For a parent -child/fetus report, information concerning the parent’ (ICH E2B(R2) B.1.10).  The data  element ‘Case narrative including clinical course, therapeutic measures, outcome and  additi onal relevant information’ (ICH -E2B(R2) B.5.1) should describe the entire case, including the  father’s information.   • If both the parent and the child/foetus experien ce suspected adverse reactions, two separate  reports, i.e. one for the parent (mother or father)  and one for the child/foetus, should be created  but they should be linked by using the data element ‘Identification number of the report which is  linked to this report’ ( ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.12) in each report.   • If there has been no rea ction affecting the child , the parent -child/foetus report does not apply; i.e.  the section ‘Patients characteristics’  (ICH-E2B(R2)  B.1) applies only to the parent (mother or  father) who  experienced the suspected adverse reaction.   • For those cases describing miscarriage or early spontaneous abortion, only a parent report is  applicable, i.e. the section ‘Patients characteristics’ (ICH -E2B(R2)  B.1) apply to the mother.  However, if the suspec t medicinal product was taken by the father , the data element ‘Addit ional  information on drug’ (ICH -E2B(R2)  B.4.k.1 9) should specify  that the medication was taken by the  father.   VI.C.6.2.3.2. Suspected adverse reaction  reports published in the scientific literature   EU requirements  in relation to the monitoring of suspected drug reactions  reported  in the scientific and  medical  literature are provided in VI.C.2.2.3 .. With regard to the electronic reporting of ICSRs  published in the scientific and medical literature, the  following applies :   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 42/90     • The literature references sh all be included  in the data element ‘Literature reference(s)’ (ICH - E2B(R2) A.2.2) in the Vancouver Convention (known as “Vancouver style”), devel oped by the  International Committee of Medical Journal Editors  [IR Art 28 (3) (b)]. The standard format as well  as those for special situations can be found in the following reference : International Committee of  Medical Journal Editors. Uniform requirements for manuscripts submitted to biomedical journals. N  Engl J Med. 1997; 336: 309- 16, which is in the Vancouver  style41.   • A comprehensive English summary of the  article  shall be provid ed in the data element ‘Case  narrative including clinical course, therapeutic measures, outcome and additional relevant  information’ (ICH -E2B(R2) B.5.1)  [IR Art 28 (3) (b)].   • Upon request  of the Agency , for specific safety review, a full translation  in Engl ish and a copy of  the relevant literature article shall be provided by the marketing authorisation holder  that  transmitted the initial report, taking into account copyright restrictions  [IR 28 (3)] . The  recommendations detailed in VI.App2.10 , regarding the mailing of the literature article , should be  adhered to .  • Recommendations presented in VI.App2.10 , for the reporting of several cases when they are  published in the same literature article , should be followed.   VI.C.6.2.3.3. Suspected adverse reactions related to overdose, abuse, off -label use, misuse ,  medication error  or occupational exposure   General principles are provided in VI.B.6.3 ..  If a case of  overdose, abuse, off- label use, misuse , medication error  or occupational exposure  is  reported with clinical consequences, the MedDRA Lowest  Level Term code, corresponding to the term  closest to the description of the reported overdose, abuse,  off-label use,  misuse , medication error  or  occupational exposure  should be added to the observed suspected adverse reaction(s) in the data  element ‘Reaction/event in MedDRA termin ology (Lowest Level Term)’ (ICH -E2B(R2) B. 2.i.1), in line  with recommendations included in the latest version of the ICH-Endorsed Guide for MedDRA Users  'MedDRA Term Selection: Points to Consider ' (see GVP Annex IV ).  VI.C.6.2.3. 4. Lack of therapeutic efficacy   General principles  are provided in VI.B.6.4..  If the primary source suspects a lack of therapeutic efficacy, the MedDRA Lowe st Level Term code,  corresponding to the term closest to the description of the reported lack of therapeutic efficacy, should  be provided in the data element ‘Reaction/event in MedDRA terminology (Lowest Level Term)’ (ICH - E2B(R2) B.2.i.1 ), in line with recommendations included in the latest version of the ICH-Endorsed  Guide for MedDRA Users 'MedDRA Term Selection: Points to Consider ' (see GVP Annex IV) .   Unless aggravation of the medical condition occurs, the indication for which the suspected  medicinal  product was administered should not be included  in the data element ‘Reaction/event in MedDRA  terminology (Lowest Level Term) .  The same reporting modalities as for serious ICSRs ( see VI.C.4 .) should be applied for those cases  related to classes of medicinal products where , as described in VI.B.6.4 ., reports of lack of therapeutic  efficacy should be reported within a 15 -day time frame . If no seriousness criterion  is available , it is  acceptable to submit the ICSR within 15  days as non -serious .                                                   41 The Vancouver recommendations are also available on the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors website  http://www.icmje.org .   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 43/90     VI.C.6.2.3.5. Suspected adverse reactions related to quality defect or falsified medicinal  products   EU requirements are provided in VI.C.2.2.4.. In order to be able to clearly identify cases related to  quality defect or falsified medicinal products when they are exchanged between stakeholders, the  following recommendations should be applied:   a. Quality defect   Where a report o f suspected adverse reaction s is associated with a suspected or confirmed quality  defect of a  medicinal product, the MedDRA Lowest  Level Term code of the term corresponding most  closely to the product quality issue , should be added to  the observed suspecte d adverse reaction (s) in  the data element ‘Reaction/event in MedDRA terminology (Lowest Level Term)’ (ICH -E2B(R2) B.2.i.1 ).   b. Falsified medicinal products   Where a  report of  suspected adverse reaction s is associated with a suspected or confirmed falsified42  ingredient , active substance  or medicinal product , the MedDRA Lowe st Level Term code of the term  corresponding most closely to the reported information should be added to the observed suspected  adverse reaction (s) in the data element ‘Reaction/event in M edDRA termin ology (Lowest Level Term)’  (ICH-E2B(R2) B.2.i.1 ). Information on the suspected medicinal product , active substance (s) or  excipient(s) should be provided in the data elements ‘Proprietary medicinal product name’ (ICH - E2B(R2) B.4.k.2.1) and/or ‘A ctive substance name(s)’  (ICH-E2B(R2) B.4.k.2.2 ) as reported by the  primary source .  VI.C.6.2.3.6. Suspected transmission via a medicinal product of an infectious agent   EU requirements  are provided in VI.C.2.2.5 ..   The coding of a suspected transmission of an infectious agent via a medicinal product in the  data  element  'Reaction/event in MedDRA terminology (Lowest Level Term)' (ICH -E2B(R2) B.2.i.1 ) should  be performed in line with the latest version of the ICH-Endorsed Guide for MedDRA Users 'MedDRA  Term Selection: Points to Consider ' (see GVP Annex IV ).  In addition, if the infectious agent is specified, the MedDRA Lowest  Level Term code corresponding to  the infectious agent should also be included  in the data element ‘Reaction/event in MedDRA  termino logy (Lowest Level Term)’ (ICH -E2B(R2) B.2.i.1 ).   VI.C.6.2.3.7. Report s of suspected adverse reactions originating from organised data  collection systems  and other systems   General safety reporting requirements in the EU for post- authorisation studies are provided in VI.C.1 .  and VI.C.2.2.2 .. Individual case safety reports originating from those  studies shall contain information  on study type, study name and the sponsor’s study number or study registration number [IR Art 28  (3)(c)].  This should be provided in ICH E2B(R2) section A.2.3 ‘Study identi fication’.   Safety reporting requirements regarding patient support programmes or market research programmes  are provided in VI.C.2.2.11 ..  The following reporting rules should be applied based on (i) the type of data collection system and (ii) whether the suspected medicinal product is part of the scope of the data collection system.    1. For cases of  suspected  adverse reactions (i) in relation to those  adverse events for which the  protocol of non -interventional post -authorisation studies does not provide differently and requires                                                   42 As presented in EU legislation  (Directive 2011/62/EU ).   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 44/90     their systematic collection  (see VI.C.1.2.1. ), (ii) originating from compassionate use or named  patient use conducted in Member Sta tes where the active collection  of adverse events occurring in  these programmes is required (see VI.C.1.2.2. ), or (iii) originating from patient support  programmes , or market research programme s (see VI.C.2.2.11. ):  a) Where t he adverse reaction is suspected to be related at least to the stu died (or supplied)   medicinal product :  • the report should be considered as solicited;   • the ICH E2B(R2) data element A.1.4 ' Type of report' should be populated wit h the value 'Report  from study';   • the ICH E2B(R2) data element A.2.3.3 'Study type in which the reaction(s)/event(s) were  observed' should be populated with the value ‘Other studies’ or 'Individual patient use'.   b) Where the adverse reaction is only suspected to be related to a medicinal product which  is not  subject to the scope of the organised data collection system and  there is no interaction with the  studied (or supplied) medicinal product :  • the report should be cons idered as spontaneous repor t; as such it conveys the suspicion of the  primary source;  • The ICH E2B(R2) data element A.1.4 'Type of report' should be populated with the value  'Spontaneous'.   2. For suspected adverse reactions (i) in relation to those adverse  events for which the protocol of  non-interventional post- authorisation studies provides differently and does not require their  systematic collection  (see VI.C.1.2.1. ) or (ii)  originating  from compassi onate use or named patient  use conducted in Member States where the active collection  of adverse events occurring in these  programmes is not required  (see VI.C.1.2.2. ):   • the report should be considered a s spontaneous repor t; as such it conveys the suspicion of the  primary source;  • the ICH E2B(R2) data element A.1.4 'Type of report' should be populated with the value  'Spontaneous'.    3. For clinical trial conducted in accor dance with Directive 2001/20/EC and where the adverse reaction  is only suspected to be related to a non-investigational medicinal product (or another medicinal  product which  is not subject to the scope of the clinical trial)  and there is no interaction with the  investigational medicinal produc t:  • the report should be considered as spontaneous repor t; as such it conveys the suspicion of the  primary source;  • the ICH E2B(R2) data element A.1.4 'Type of report' should be populated with the value  'Spontaneous'.   All ICSRs  which are reportable to the E udraVigilance database  and which originate  from post- authorisation studies  which do not fall under the scope of the clini cal trials Directive 2001/20/EC,  should be submitted to EVPM (see VI.C.6.2.1 .). The same applies to  cases of  adverse reactions  originating in clinical trials if they are not suspected to be related to the investigational medicinal product.     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practice s (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 45/90     VI.C.6.2.3.8. Receipt  of missing minimum information   When missing minimum information ( see VI.B.2 .) has been obtained about a non -valid ICSR , the  following rules should be applied:   • the data element ‘Date report was first received from source’ (ICH -E2B(R2) A.1.6) should contain  the date of receipt of the ini tial non -valid ICSR;   • the data element ‘Date of receipt of the most recent information for this report’ ( ICH-E2B(R2)   A.1.7) should contain the date when all the four elements of the minimum information required for  reporting have become available;   • clarifica tion should be provided in the case narrative ( data element ICH -E2B(R2)  B.5.1) that some   of the four elements w ere missing in the initial report. ;  • as for any reported cases, compliance monitoring is performed against  the data element ‘Date of  receipt of th e most recent information for this report’ (ICH -E2B(R2) A.1.7) .  VI.C.6.2.4. Data quality of i ndividual case safety reports transmitted e lectronically  and  duplicate management   The EudraVigilance database should contain all cases of suspected adverse reactio ns that are  reportable according to Directive 2001/83/EC and Regulation (EC)  No 726/2004  to support  pharmacovigilance activities. This applies to all medicinal products au thorised in the EU independent  of  their authorisation procedure.   The EudraVigilance database  should also be based on the highest internationally recognised data  quality standards.   To achieve these objectives, all c ompetent authorities in Member States and marketing authorisation  holder s should adhere to:   • the electronic reporting requirements as defined in EU legislation;   • the concepts of data structuring, coding and reporting in line with the  EU legislation,  guidelines ,  standards and principles referred to in VI.C.6.2.2.1..  This is a pr e-requisite to maintain  a properly  functioning EudraVigilance database intended to fully  support the protection of public health .  The Agency shall , in collaboration with the stakeholder that submitted an ICSR to the EudraVigilance  database, be responsible for operating procedures that ensure the highest  quality and full integrity of  the information collected in the EudraVigilance database  [REG Art 24(3)]. This includes as well the  monitoring of use of the terminologies referred to in chapter IV of the Commi ssion Implementing  Regulation (EU) No 520/2012 [IR Art 25(3)].   Specific quality system procedures and processes shall be in place in order to ensure:    • the submission of accurate and verifiable data on serious and non -serious suspected adverse  reactions to the Eudravigilance database within the 15 or 90- day time frame  [IR Art 11 (1) (c)];   • the quality, integrity and completeness of the information submitted on the risks of medicinal  products, including processes to avoid duplicate submissions  [IR Art 11 (1) ( d)].  In this regard , marketing authorisation holders and competent authorities in Member States  should  have in place an audit  system , which ensure s the highest  quality of the ICSRs  transmitted  electronically to the EudraVigi lance database  within the correc t time frames, and which enables the   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 46/90     detection and management of duplicate ICSRs  in their system . Those transmitted ICSRs should be  complete, entire and undiminished in their structure, format and content.    High level business process maps and process descriptions in relation to the quality review of ICSRs  and the detection and management of duplicate ICSRs  are provided in VI. Appendix  6 and VI.  Appendix  7. Further guid ance on the detection of duplicate ICSRs is available in the G uideline on the  Detection and M anagement of D uplicate Individual Cases and I ndividual Case Safety Reports (ICSRs)  (EMA/13432/2009 ).  A review  of the ICSRs quality , integrity  and compliance with the reporting time frames  will be  performed by the Agency at regular intervals for all organisations reporting  to the EudraVigilance  database. Feedback from these reviews will be provided to those organisations.   VI.C.6.2.5. Electronic re-transmission of ICSRs  between multiple senders and r eceivers   The electronic re -transmission of cases refers to the electronic exchange  of ICSRs b etween multiple  senders and receivers, for example  where in case of contractual agreement, a third country ICSR is  first reported by a marketing authorisation holder  outside the EU to another marketing authorisation  holder in the EU  and from there  to the A gency.  This applies as well for the interim arrangements  period, where based  on the reporting requirements detailed in VI.C.4.1 ., ICSRs originating in the EU  are submitted by marketing authorisation holders to the competent authorities in the Member State  where the reaction occurred and then re -transmitted to the EudraVigilance database .   During this re -transmission process, information on the case should not in principle be omitted or  changed if no new information on the case is available to the re -transmitting sender.   Exceptions apply to the following  data elements  or sections :  • ‘Sender’s (case) safety report unique identifier’ ( ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.0.1);   • ‘Date of this transmission’ ( ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.3);   • ‘Date report w as first received from source’ (ICH -E2B(R2)  A.1.6) , for initial reports;   • ‘Date of receipt of the most recent information for this report’ ( ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.7);   • ‘Information on sender and receiver of case safety report’  (ICH-E2B(R2)  A.3);  • ‘Relatedness of dru g to reaction(s)/event(s)’  (ICH-E2B(R2)  B.4.k.18) ;  • ‘Sender's diagnosis/syndrome and/or reclassification of reaction/event ’ (ICH-E2B(R2)  B.5.3);   • ‘Sender’s comments ’ (ICH-E2B(R2)  B.5.4).   In the interest of improving data quality, in case of errors or inconsistencies in the report, the re - transmitters should go back to the originator of the report to correct the case accordingly. However, if  this cannot be done within normal reporting time frame, the re -transmitter can correct information that  has been incorre ctly structured.   In addition, any electronic data interchange  partner should adhere to the ICH -E2B(R2)  rules regarding  the provision of follow -up information,  whereby  the ‘Worldwide unique case identification number’  (ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.10) should be maintain ed in accordance with the ICH-E2B(R2)  guideline  (see GVP  Annex IV ). Non -adherence to these administrative requirements endangers the electronic case  manage ment and  leads to the potential for unnecessary duplication of reports in the receiver’s  database .    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 47/90     VI.C.6.2.6. Electronic reporting through c ompany’s headquarters   If a pharmaceutical company decides to centralise the electronic r eporting of ICSRs (e.g. by reporting  through the company’s g lobal or EU  headquarter), the following should be taken into account:   • the central  reporting arrangement should be clearly specified in the marketing authorisation  holder ’s pharmacovigilance system  master file  and in the interna l standard operating procedures;   • the company’s headquarter  designated for reporting the ICSRs should be  registered with  EudraVigilance;   • the same principles may be applied for reporting ICSRs from the competent authorities in Member  States to the marketing authorisation holder s during the interim arrangement s period,  that is  the  competent a uthorities in Member States report electronically to the company’s headquarter  instead  of to the local affiliate s.  VI.C.6.3. Electronic subm ission of information on medicinal products   To support the objectives of Directive 2001/83/EC and Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, the provisions   provided in second sub -paragraph of Article 57(2) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, regarding the  electronic submiss ion and update of information on medicinal products for human use authorised or  registered in the EU , shall be followed by marketing authorisation holders. In this aspect marketing  authorisation holders shall apply the internationally agreed formats and te rminologies described in  chapter IV of the Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 520/2012. Recommendations  related  to the electronic submission of information on medicines  are provided on the Agency’s website43.                                                   43 See EMA documents for electronic submission of information on medicines :  http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=pages/regulation/document_listing/document_listing_000336.jsp&murl=m enus/regulations/regulation s.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac0580410138&jsenabled=true    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 48/90     VI. Appendix 1 Identification of  biologi cal medicinal   product s44   Figure VI.2.  Business process map -  Identification of biological medicinal products                                                       44 Mandatory when they are the subject of reports of suspected adverse reactions [DIR Art 102(e) and IR Art 28 (3)].     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 49/90     Table VI.2.  Process description -  Identification of biological medicinal products   No. Step Description  Responsible  Organisation   1 Start.   Receive report . Day 0. Receipt of the information for  the case that indicates that one of the  suspect drugs is of biological origin.  MAH/NCA   2 Does report concern a biological  medicinal product?  If Yes, go to step 3   If No, go to step 4    3 Are batch number, brand name  & active substance all present  and identifiable?  If Yes, create the case and send it to the  correct receiver (step 3).   If there is more than one batch number,  structure the batch number that coincided  with the adverse reacti on in the Drug  sectio n (ICH -E2B(R2) B.4) and enter the  other batch numbers in the case narrative.   If No, create the case and send it to the  correct receiver (step 3)  and follow -up  with the reporter (step 3.1) . MAH/NCA   3.1 Follow -up with reporter.  Follow -up with the reporter to attempt to  identify the missing information.  MAH/NCA   3.2 Was reporter able to provide the  missing information?  If Yes, return to step 1 –  the information  should be treated as follow -up and a new  version created & transmitted.   If No, document this (step 3.3). MAH/NCA   3.3 Document the required missing  information in the case.  Document in the case that the missing  required information has been sought but  the reporter was not able or willing to  provide it.  MAH/NCA   4 Send to receiver , where  applicable . If the case requires transmission to a  receiver, t ransmit the case electronically,  in E2B(R2) format within the relevant  timelines (15 or 90 days), to the relevant  receiver.  MAH/NCA   5 Receive in  PharmacoVigilance DataBase  (PhV DB). Receive the case elect ronically and load it  into the P harmaco Vigilance D ataBase. Receiver   6 Validate products and  substances Validate the products and substances to  ensure that the brand name, active  substance & batch number are all present  and identifiable.   This validation should be complementary  to the usual business rules validations.  Receiver   7 Was validation successful?  If Yes, store the case in  the  PharmacoVigilance D ataBase (step 8 ).  If No, contact the sender (Step 7 .1). Receiver   7.1 Contact sender.  Contact the sender rega rding the missing  or not identifiable information.  Receiver    Guidelin e on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 50/90     No. Step Description  Responsible  Organisation   7.2 Is required data in the case  file? Upon receipt of communication  from the  receiver, check in the case file to see if the  missing or unidentifiable information is  already on file.   If it is on file, correct the case (step 7 .3).  If the information is not on file, contact  the reporter to request the missin g  information (step 3 .1). MAH/NCA   7.3 Correct case.  Correct the case to include the missing  information & send upd ated version to  receiver (ste p 4). MAH/NCA   8 Store case in  PharmacoVigilance DataBase  (PhV DB).  The case should now be stored in the  pharmacovigilance database.  Receiver   9 End. The case is now available for signal  detection and data quality analyses.       Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 51/90     VI. Appendix 2 Detailed guida nce on the monitoring of  scientific literature   VI.App2.1. When to start and stop searching in the scientific  literature   EU specific requirements, as regards the monitoring of scientific and medical literature are provided in  VI.C.2.2.3 ..  In addition to the reporting of serious and non -serious ICSRs or their presentation in periodic safety  update reports , the marketing authorisation holder  has an obligation to re view the world wide  experience with medicinal product in the period between the submission of the marketing authorisation  application and the granting of the marketing authorisation.  The worldwide experience includes   published scientific and medical literature. For the period between submission and granting o f a  marketing authorisation, literature searching should be conducted to identify published articles that  provide information that could impact on the risk -benefit assessment of the product under evaluation .  For the purpose of the preparation of periodic s afety update report s (see Module VII ) and the  notification of e merging safety issues (see VI.C.2.2.6 .), the requirement for literature searching is not  dependent on a product being marketed. Literature searches should be conducted for all products with a marketing authorisation, irrespective of commercial status. It would therefore be expected that  literature searching would start on submission of a marketing authorisation application and continue  while the autho risation is active.   VI.App2.2. Where to look   Articles relevant to the safety of medicinal products are usually published in well- recognised scientific  and medical journals, however , new and important information may be first presented at international  symp osia or in local journals. Although the most well- known databases (e.g. Medline) cover the  majority of scientific and medical journals, the most relevant publications may be collated elsewhere in  very specialised medical fields, for certain types of produc t (e.g. herbal medicinal products) or where  safety concerns are subject to non -clinical research. A marketing authorisation holder  should establish  the most relevant source of published literature for each product.   Medline, Embase and Excerpta Medica are often used for the purpose of identifying  ICSRs. These  databases have broad medical subject coverage.  Other recognised appropriate systems may be used.   The database providers can advise on the sources of records, the currency of the data, and the nature  of database inclusions. It is best practice to have selected one or more databases appropriate to a  specific product. For example, in risk -benefit assessment, safety issues arising during non -clinical  safety studies may necessitate regular review of a database that has a less clinical focus and includes  more laboratory -based publications.   Relevant published abstracts from meetings and draft manuscripts should be reviewed for reportable  ICSRs  and for inclusion in periodic safety update report s. Although it is  not a requirement for  marketing authorisation holder s to attend all such meetings, if there are company personnel at such a  meeting, or it is sponsored by a marketing authorisation holder , it is expected that articles of relevance  would be available to th e marketing authorisation holder 's pharmacovigilance system. In addition,  literature that is produced or sponsored by a marketing authorisation holder  should be reviewed, so  that any reportable ICSRs can be reported as required in advance of publication.   If ICSRs are brought to the attention of a marketing authorisation holder  from this source, they should  be processed in the same way as ICSRs found on searching a database or reviewing a journal.   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 52/90     Abstracts from major scientific meetings are indexed and available in some databases, but posters and  communications are rarely available from this source.   VI.App2.3. Database Searches   A search is more than a collection of terms used to interrogate a database. Decisions about the database selection, approach to re cords retrieval, term or text selection and the application of limits  need to be relevant to the purpose of the search. For searches in pharmacovigilance, some of the  considerations for database searching are described below.   VI.App2.3.1. Precision and rec all  Medical and scientific databases are a collection of records relating to a set of publications. For any  given record, each database has a structure that facilitates the organisation of records and searching by various means, from simple text to complex  indexing terms with associated subheadings. Search  terms (text or indexed) can be linked using Boolean operators and proximity codes to combine concepts, increasing or decreasing the specificity of a search. In addition, limits to the output can be set. W hen searching, the application of search terms means that the output is less than the entire  database of the records held. The success of a search can be measured according to precision and recall (also called sensitivity). Recall is the proportion of records retrieved ("hits") when considering  the total number of relevant records that are present in the database. Precision is the proportion of  "hits" that are relevant when considering the number of records that were retrieved. In general, the  higher recall  searches would result in low precision.   VI.App2.3.2 . Search construction   Databases vary in structure, lag time in indexing and indexing policy for new terms. While some  database providers give information about the history of a particular indexing term or the application of synonyms, other databases are less sophisticated. In addition, author abstracts are not always  consistent in the choice of words relating to pharmacovigilance concepts or medicinal products/active  substances names.   When constructing a search for pharmacovigilance, the highest recall for a search would be to enter  the medicinal product  name  and active substance  name  (in all their  variants) only. In practice,  additional indexing terms and text are added to increase precision and to reduce the search result to  return records that are of relevance to pharmacovigilance. There is a balance to be achieved. It is, therefore, expected that complicated searches are accompanied by initial testing to check that relevant  records are not omitted , howe ver, there is no defined acceptable loss of recall when searching for  pharmacovigilance purposes. Term selection should be relevant to the database used and the subject  of the search.   VI.App2.3.3 . Selection of product terms   Searches should be performed to find records for active substance s and not for brand names only. This  can also include excipients or adjuvants  that may have a pharmacological effect. When choosing  search terms for medicinal product s, there are a number of considerations.   • Is the active su bstance  an indexed term?   • What spellings might be used by authors (particularly if the active substance  is not indexed)?    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 53/90     • What alternative names might apply (numbers or codes used for products newly developed,  chemical names, brand names, active metabolites)?   • Is it medically relevant to search only for a particular salt or specific  compound for an active  substance ?  During searches for ICSRs, it may be possible to construct a search that excludes records for  pharmaceutical forms or routes of administration dif ferent t o that of the subject product,  however,  restrictions should allow for the inclusion of articles where this is not specified. Search construction should also allow for the retrieval of overdose, medication error, abuse , misuse , off-label use  or  occupational exposure  information, which could be poorly indexed. Searches should also not routinely  exclude records of unbranded products or records for other company brands.   VI.App2.3.4 . Selection of search terms   As described previously, there is no acceptable loss of recall when searching published literature for  pharmacovigilance. The use of search terms (free text or use of indexing) to construct more precise  searches may assist in managing the output. Deficiencies that have been found frequently during  Competent Authority inspections include:   • the omission of outcome terms,  for example "death" as an outcome may be the only indexed term  in a case of sudden  death;   • the omission of pregnancy terms to find adverse outcomes in pregnancy for ICSR reporting;   • the om ission of terms to include special types of reports  which needs to be addressed as well in  periodic safety update reports , for example,   − Reports of  asymptomatic overdose , medication error , off-label use, misuse, abuse,  occupational exposure ;   − Reports of  uneventful pregnancy .  VI.App2.3.5 . Limits to a search   Some databases apply indexing that allows the application of limits to a search, for example by subject  age, sex, publication type. The limits applied to a search are not always shown in the "search strat egy"  or search string.   If limits are applied, they should be relevant to the purpose of the search. When searching a worldwide  scientific and medical literature database, titles and abstracts are usually in English language. The use  of limits that reduce the search result to only those published in the English language is generally not  acceptable. Limits applied to patient types, or other aspects of an article, for example human, would need to be justified in the context of the purpose of a search.   Limits c an be applied to produce results for date ranges,  for example, weekly searches can be obtained  by specifying the start and end date for the records to be retrieved. Care should be taken to ensure that the search is incl usive for an entire time period,  for example, records that may have been added  later in the day for the day of the search should be covered in the next search period. The search  should also retrieve all records added in that period, and not just those initially entered or published  during the  specified period (so that records that have been updated or retrospectively added are  retrieved). This should be checked with the database provider if it is not clear.   Although one of the purposes of searching is to identify ICSRs for reporting, the use of publication type  limits is not robust. ICSRs may be presented within review or study publications, and such records may   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 54/90     not be indexed as "case- reports", resulting in their omission for preparation of periodic safety update  reports from search results li mited by publication type.   VI.App2.4. Record keeping   Records of literature searches  should be maintained in accordance with  the requirements described in  [IR Art 12]. Marketing authorisation holder s should  demonstrate due diligence in searching published  scientific and medical literature . It is always good practice to retain a record of the search construction,  the database used and the date the search was run. In addition, it may be useful to retain results of  the search for an appropriate period of time, particularly in the event of zero results. If decision  making is documented on the results, it is particularly important to retain this information.   VI.App2.5. Outputs   Databases can show search results in different ways, for example , titles only or title a nd abstract with  or without indexing terms. Some publications are of obvious relevance at first glance, whereas others  may be more difficult to identify. Consistent with the requirement to provide the full citation for an  article and to identify relevant p ublications, the title, citation and abstract (if available) should always  be retrieved and reviewed.   VI.App2.6. Review and selection of articles   It is recognised that literature search results are a surrogate for the actual article. Therefore, it is  expec ted that the person reviewing the results of a search is trained  to identify the articles of  relevance. This may be an information professional trained in pharmacovigilance or a  pharmacovigilance professional with knowledge of the database used. Recorded c onfirmation that the  search results have been reviewed will assist in demonstrating that there is a systematic approach to collecting information about suspected adverse reactions from literature sources. It is recommended that quality control checks are p erformed on a sample of literature reviews / selection of articles to  check the primary reviewer is identifying the relevant articles.   A common issue in selecting relevant articles from the results of a search is that often this process is conducted for th e purposes of identification of ICSRs only. Whereas the review should also be used as  the basis for collating articles for the periodic safety update report  production, therefore relevant  studies with no ICSRs should also be identified, as well as those re ports of events  that do not qualify  for reporting.   Outputs from searches may contain enough information to be a valid ICSR, in which case the article should be ordered. All articles for search results that are likely to be relevant to pharmacovigilance  requirements should be obtained, as they may contain valid ICSRs or relevant safety information . The  urgency with which this occurs should be proportionate  to the content of the material reviewed and the  resulting requirement for action as applicable for  the marketing authorisation holder .   Articles can be excluded from reporting by the marketing authorisation holder  if another company's  branded medicinal product is the suspect ed medicinal product. In the absence of a specified medicinal  product source and/or invented name, ownership of the medicinal product should be assumed for  articles about an active substance. Alternative reasons for  the exclusion of a published article for  the  reporting of ICSRs are detailed in VI.C.2.2.3 ..   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 55/90     VI.App2.7. Day zero   As described in VI.B.7 ., day zero is the date on which an organisation becomes aware of a publication  containing the minimum information for a n ICSR to be  reportable. Awareness o f a publication includes  any personnel of that organisation, or third parties with contractual arrangements with the  organisation. It is sometimes possible to identify the date on which a record was available on a  database, although with weekly literature searching, day zero for a reportable adverse reaction present  in an abstract is taken to be the date on which the search was conducted. For articles that have been  ordered as a result of literature search results, day zero is the date when the minimum info rmation for  an ICSR to be valid is available . Organisations should take appropriate measures to obtain articles  promptly in order to confirm the validity of a case.   VI.App2.8. Duplicates   Consistent with the requirements for reporting ICSRs, literature case s should be checked to prevent  reporting of duplicates, and previously reported cases should be identified as such when reported. It is, therefore, expected that ICSRs are checked in the organisation database to identify literature articles  that have already been reported.   VI.App2.9. Contracting out l iterature search services   It is possible to use the services of another party to conduct searches of the published scientific and  medical literature. In this event, the responsibility for the performance of the  search and subsequent  reporting still remains. The transfer of a pharmacovigilance task or function should be detailed in a contract between the organisation and the service provider. The nature of third party arrangements for literature searching can ran ge from access to a particular database interface only (access to a  technology) to full literature searching, review and reporting (using the professional pharmacovigilance services of another organisation). It is recognised that more than one organisation  may share services  of a third party to conduct searches for generic active substance s. In this instance, each organisation  should satisfy itself that the search and service is appropriate to their needs  and obligations .   Where an organisation is dependent  on a particular service provider for literature searching, it is  expected that an assessment of the service(s) is undertaken to determine whether it meets the needs   and obligations of the organisation. In any case, the arrangement should be clearly docume nted.  The clock start for the reporting of ICSRs begins with awareness of the minimum information by either  the organisation or the  contractual partner (whichever  is the earliest). This also applies where a third  party provides a review or  a collate d repor t from the published scientific and medical literature, in  order to ensure that published literature cases are reported as required within the correct  time frames.  That is, day zero is the date the search was run if the minimum criteria are available in th e abstract  and not the date the information was supplied to the organisation.   VI.App2.10.  Electronic submission of copies of articles  published in the  scientific literature   Until standards for the electronic transmission of attachments (e.g. copies of lite rature articles) are  developed in the framework of ICH, the sender should follow the rules outlined below for the  submission of a copy of the literature article as detailed in VI.C.6.2.3.2 .:  1. Mailing address and format  of literature articles:    Guideline on goo d pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 56/90     Literature articles reportable to the Agency should be provided in PDF format and sent via e -mail to  the following e -mail address: EVLIT@ema.europa.eu .  In relation to copies of articles f rom the published scientific and medical literature, marketing  authorisation holders are recommended to consider potential copyright issues specifically as  regards the electronic transmission and handling of electronic copies in the frame of regulatory activities.   2. File name of literature articles sent in electronic format to the Agency:   The file name of a literature article sent in PDF format should match exactly the ‘World -Wide  Unique C ase Identification Number’ (ICH -E2B(R2) A.1.10.1 or A.1.10.2 as applica ble) assigned to  the individual case, which is described in the article and which is reported in the E2B(R2) ICSR format.   If there is a follow -up article to the individual case published in the literature, the file name with  the World -Wide Unique Case Iden tification Number must be maintained but should include a  sequence number separated with a dash.   Examples:  • Initial ICSR published in the literature: FR -ORGABC -23232321 (data element ‘World- Wide Unique  Case Identification Number’ (ICH -E2B(R2) A.1.10.1));   − File name of the literature article: FR -ORGABC -23232321.pdf.   • Follow -up information published in the literature in a separate article:   − ICSR: FR -ORGABC -23232321 (data element World- Wide Unique Case Identificatio n Number  remains unchanged (ICH -E2B(R2) A.1.10.1) );  − File name: FR -ORGABC -23232321- 1.pdf.   3. Reporting of cases reported in the scientific and medical literature referring to more than one  patient:   When the literature article refers to the description of more than one patient, the copy of the  literature article should be sent only once.   The file name of a literature article sent in PDF format should match exactly the ‘World -Wide  Unique Case Identific ation Number’ (data element ICH -E2B(R2) A.1.10.1 or A.1.10.2 as applicable)  assigned to the first reportable in dividual case described in the article.   In addition, all ICSRs which relate to the same literature article should be cross referenced in the  data element ‘Identification number of the report which is linked to this report’ (ICH -E2B(R2)  A.1.12). The data el ement should be repeated as necessary to cross refer all related cases  (see  Table VI.2 .).   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 57/90     Table VI.3.  Examples for the reporting of ICSRs described in the scientific and medical literature and  referring to more than one patient   Ex. Scenario  Action   1 A literature article describes  suspected adverse reactions that  have been experienced by up to  3 single  patients.   3 ICSRs should be created and  reported for each individual  identifiable patient described in  the literature article .  Each ICSR should contain all the  availabl e information on the  case. For Case 1 described in the literature article:   • ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.10.1 ‘World- Wide Unique Case  Identification Number’:   UK-ORGABC -0001  • ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.12 ‘Identification number of the report  which is linked to this report’:   UK-ORGAB C-0002  • ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.12 ‘Identification number of the report  which is linked to this report’:   UK-ORGABC -0003  • ICH-E2B(R2) A.2.2 ‘Literature reference(s):   Literature reference in line with uniform requirements for  manuscripts submitted to biomedical journa ls:  N Engl J Med. 1997;336:309- 15.  • File name for the copy of literature article to be sent via  e-mail to EVLIT@ema.europa.eu :  UK-ORGABC -0001.pdf     For Case 2 described in the literature article:   • ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.10.1 ‘World -Wide Unique Case  Identification Number’:   UK-ORGABC -0002  • ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.12 ‘Identification number of the report  which is linked to this report’:   UK-ORGABC -0001  • ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.12 ‘Identification number of the report  which is linked to this report’:   UK-ORGABC -0003  • ICH-E2B(R2) A.2.2 ‘Literature reference(s):   Literature reference in line with uniform requirements for  manuscripts submitted to biomedical journals:   N Engl J Med. 1997;336:309- 15.  • No copy of the literature article required since the copy  was already submitted for case 1.     For Case 3 described in the literature article:   • ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.10.1 ‘World- Wide Unique Case  Identification Number’:   UK-ORGABC -0003  • ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.12 ‘Identification number of the report  which is linked to this report’:   UK-ORGABC -0001  • ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.12 ‘Identification number of the report  which is linked to this report’:   UK-ORGABC -0002   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 58/90     Ex. Scenario  Action   • ICH-E2B(R2) A.2.2 ‘Literature reference(s):   Literature reference in line with uniform requirements for  manuscripts submitted to biomedic al journals:   N Engl J Med. 1997;336:309- 15.  • No copy of the literature article required since the copy  was already submitted for case 1.   2 A literature article describes  suspected adverse reactions that  have been experienced by more  than 3 single  patients.    ICSRs should be created and  reported for each individual  identifiable patient described in  the literature article .  Each ICSR should contain all the  available information on the  case.  The cross reference with all the  linked ICSRs from this literature  article should only be provided in  the first case , in the data  element ICH -E2B(R2) A.1.12  ‘Identification number of the  report which is linked to this  report’ . There is no need to  repeat all the cross references in  the other ICSRs . For the ICSRs which relate to the same literature article, the  cross reference in the data element ‘Identification number of  the report which is linked to this report’ ICH (E2B(R2) field  A.1.12) should be conducted as follows:   • The first case should be linked to all other cases relate d  to the same article;   • All the other cases should be only linked to the first one,  as in the example below.   Example for the reporting of cases originally reported in the  scientific and medical literature referring to a large number  of patients:     For Case 1  described in the literature article:   • ICH E2B(R2) A.1.10.1 ‘Worldwide Unique Case  Identification Number’:   UK-ORGABC -0001  • ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.12 ‘Identification number of the report  which is linked to this report’:   UK-ORGABC -0002  • ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.12 ‘Identific ation number of the report  which is linked to this report’:   UK-ORGABC -0003  • ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.12 ‘Identification number of the report  which is linked to this report’:   UK-ORGABC -0004  • ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.12 ‘Identification number of the report  which is linked to this report’:   UK-ORGABC -000N   • ICH-E2B(R2) A.2.2 ‘Literature reference(s)’:   N Engl J Med. 1997;336:309- 15.  • File name for the copy of literature article to be sent via  e-mail to EVLIT@ema.europa.eu :  UK-ORGABC -0001. pdf.    For Case 2 described in the literature article:   • ICH E2B(R2) A.1.10.1 ‘Worldwide Unique Case  Identification Number’:   UK-ORGABC -0002  • ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.12 ‘Identification number of the report  which is linked to this report’:   UK-ORGABC -0001  • ICH-E2B(R2) A .2.2 ‘Literature reference(s)’:    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 59/90     Ex. Scenario  Action   N Engl J Med. 1997;336:309- 15.  • No copy of the literature article required since the copy  was already submitted for case 1.     For Case N described in the literature article:   • ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.10.1 ‘Worldwide Unique Case  Identif ication Number’:   UK-ORGABC -000N   • ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.12 ‘Identification number of the report  which is linked to this report’:   UK-ORGABC -0001  • ICH-E2B(R2) A.2.2 ‘Literature reference(s)’:   N Engl J Med. 1997;336:309- 15.  • No copy of the literature article require d since the copy  was already submitted for case 1.      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 60/90     VI. Appendix 3 Modalities for reporting   VI.App3.1. Interim  arrangement s  Figure VI.3.  Business process map -  Suspected adverse reaction reporting in EU –  Interim  arrangement s      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 61/90     Table VI.4.  Process descr iption - Suspected adverse reaction reporting in EU -  Interim arrangement s  No. Step Description  Responsible  Organisation   1 Start.   Receive report.  Marketing Authorisation Holder  (MAH) receives information on a  suspected adverse reaction from a  patient, hea lthcare professional or  other valid reporter . If the case has  been received from a n EU NCA, do not   retransmit it to EudraVigilance (EV).   MAH  2 Open case.  Open and create an individual case safety  report.  MAH  3 Is case from EEA ? Did the adverse reactions  occur in the EU?   If No, go to step 3.1 .  If Yes, got so step 5.  MAH  3.1 Is case serious?  If No, go to step 3.2 .  If Yes, got to step 4. MAH  3.2 End. The case is now stored in the MAHs  pharmacovigilance database. Normal  follow-up activities should continue   and if any follow-up is received,  return to step 1.  MAH  4 Send to EV & relevant NCAs.  Transmit the serious case electronically,  in ICH E2B(R2) format as an xml message  within the 15 -day time  frame  to EV and to  the relevant NCAs , where required. The  case goes to step 4.1 & step 6.  MAH  4.1 Receive in EV.  Receive the message in EV database from  MAH or NCA.  EMA  4.2 Technical Validation (EV  Business Rules).  Every message that is received in EV is  validated against the EudraVigilance  Business Rules and an Ack nowledgement  message (ACK) is created specifying  whether or not the message & the case(s)  therein are valid.   A valid message will have an ACK code  01. A non -valid message will have an ACK  code 02 (if a case contained therein is  non-valid) or 03 (if the mes sage itself is  not correctly formatted).  EMA  4.3 Store in EV.  Once the case has been validated, it is  stored in EV.  EMA  4.4 Send ACK.  The acknowledgement message created in  step 4.2 is transmitted to the case  sender, no later than 2 business days  following receipt of the case.   Go to step 16  for MAHs receiving the ACK.   Go to step 20  for NCAs receiving the ACK.  EMA   Guideline on good pharma covigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 62/90     No. Step Description  Responsible  Organisation   Go to step 4.5 for the EMA’s next step.   4.5 Was ACK code 01?  If No, go to step 4.6.   If Yes, go to step 4.7.  EMA  4.6 Await corrected case.  The sender should correct every case with  an error ACK and retransmit within the  regulatory reporting timelines. Periodically  the EMA should assess all cases with an  error ACK for which a corrected case has  not been transmitted and contact the  Qualified Person  responsible for  Pharmaco Vigilance (QPPV) to inform of  these missing corrected cases. If a sender  fails to correct cases, then this  information should be incorporated into  data quality assessments and the  appropriate committees should be  informed.   Go back to step 4.1 upon receipt of the  corrected case.  EMA  4.7 End. The case is now stored in EV &,  following duplicate detection &  recoding will be available for signal  detection and data quality analyses.  EMA  5 Send to relevant NCA.  Transmit the case (serious, and if  required non-serious) electronically, in  ICH E2B(R2) format as an xml message  within the relevant time  frames (15 or 90  days, as applicable), to the relevant NCA  for the Member State where  the reaction  occurred. If country of occurrence has not  been specified, then country of primary  source should normally be taken to be the  occurrence country.  MAH  6 Rece ive in  PharmacoVigilance D ataBase  (PhV DB) . Receive the mes sage from MAH in the  NCA’s PhV DB . NCA  7 Technical Validation (EV  Business Rules).  Every message that is received in the  NCA’s PhV DB should be validated against  the EudraVigilance Business Rules and an  Acknowledgement message (ACK) is  created specifying whether or not the  message & the case(s) therein are valid.   A valid message will have an ACK code  01. A non -valid message will have an ACK  code 02 (if a case contained therein is  non-valid) or 03 (if the message itself is NCA   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 63/90     No. Step Description  Responsible  Organisation   not correctly formatted).   8 Store in EV.  Once the case has been validated,  it is  stored in the NCA’s PhV DB . NCA  9 Send ACK.  The acknowledgement message created in  step 7 is transmitted to the case sender  no later than 2 business days following  receipt of the case.   Go to step 16  for MAHs receiving the ACK.   Go to step 10 for the NCA’s next step.  NCA  10 Was ACK code 01 ? If No, go to step 10.1.   If Yes, go to step 11.  NCA  10.1 Await corrected case.  The MAH should correct every case with  an error ACK and retransmit it within the  regulatory reporting timelines. Periodically  the NCA should assess all cases with an  error ACK for which a corrected case has  not been transmitted and contact the  QPPV to inform them of these missing  corrected cases. If a sender fails to  correct cases, then this information  should be incorporated into any data  quality assessments performed and the  appropriate action can be taken.   Go back to step 6 upon receipt of the  corrected case.  NCA  11 Was case from NCA’s MS?  Did the case occur in the territory of the  receiving NCA?   If No, go to step 11.1.   If Yes, go to step 12.  NCA  11.1 End. The c ase is now s tored in the NCA’s  PharmacoVigilance D ataBase &,  following duplicate detection &  recoding will be available for signal  detection and data quality analyses.  NCA  12 Send to EV  & MAH . Transmit the serious case electronically,  in ICH E2B(R2) format as an xml message  within the 15 -day time frame  to EV  and to  the relevant MAH(s).   Go to step 4.1  for reception of the case in  EV  Go to step 24 for reception of the case by  the relevant MAH(s)  NCA  13 Start.   Receive report.  NCA receives information on a  suspected adv erse reaction from a  patient, healthcare professional or  other valid reporter concerning a NCA   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 64/90     No. Step Description  Responsible  Organisation   suspected adverse reaction occurring  in the territory of the receiving  competent authority.   14 Open case.  Open and create an individual c ase safety  report.  NCA  15 Is case serious?  If No, go to step 15.1   If Yes, go to step 12  NCA  15.1 End The c ase is now stored in the NCA’s  Pharmaco Vigilance D ataBase &,  following duplicate detection &  recoding will be available for signal  detection and data quality analyses.  NCA  16 Receive ACK.  Receive the ACK message, associate it  with the relevant case(s) and check to  ensure that the case was considered  valid.  MAH  17 Was ACK code 01?  If yes, go to step 17.1.   If no, then the regulatory timeline clock  has not stopped and the ca se should be  corrected and re -transmitted to EV within  the relevant regulatory reporting  timelines. Day 0 remains as the day that  the first information was received. A 02 or  03 ACK does not constitut e new  information. Go to step 18  (Correct case).  MAH  17.1 End. End the process of transmitting this  version of the case to EV or NCA.  Normal follow-up activities should  continue and if any follow-up is  received, return to step 1.  MAH  18 Correct case.  Correct the case to remove the errors  identified in the ACK.  MAH  19 Retransmit to the organisation  which rejected the case.  Retransmit the corrected case to the  organisation which rejected the case with  ACK code 02 or 03.   Got to step 4.1 &/or step 6 as  appropriate.  MAH  20 Receive ACK.  Receive the ACK message, ass ociate it  with the relevant case(s) and check to  ensure that the case was considered  valid.  NCA  21 Was ACK code 01?  If yes, go to step 23 .  If no, then the regulatory timeline clock  has not stopped and the case should be  corrected and re -transmitted to EV within  the relevant regulatory reporting NCA   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 65/90     No. Step Description  Responsible  Organisation   timelines. Day 0 remains as the day that  the first information was received. A 02 or  03 ACK does not constitute new  information. Go to step 2 2 (Correct case).   22 Correct case.  Correct the case to remove the err ors  identified in the ACK and retransmit the  case to EV and to the relevant MAH(s)  (go  back to step 12).  NCA  23 End. End the process of transmitting this  version of the case to EV and to the  relevant MAH(s) . Normal follow-up  activities should continue and if any  follow-up is received, return to step 6  or 13.  NCA  24 Receive report from NCA  MAH receives information on a  suspected adverse reaction from an  NCA.   This case should not be retransmitted  to EV and to the NCA which  transmitted it to the MAH  MAH  25 End The case is now stored in the MAH’s  Pharmaco Vigilance DataB ase &,  following duplicate detection &  recoding will be available for signal  detection and data quality analyses.  MAH     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 66/90     VI.App3.1.1 . Interim arrangements applicable to marketing authorisation  holders   Reporting requirements of individual case safety reports applicable to marketing authorisation holders  during the interim period are detailed in the latest version of Doc. EMA/321386/2012  available on EMA  website.         Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 67/90     VI.App3.1.2 . Interim arrangements a pplicable to competent authorities in  Member States   Table VI.5.  Reporting requirements applicable to competent authorit ies in Member States -  Interim  arrangements   Marketing authorisation  procedure  Origin  Adverse reaction type  Destination  Time  frame   • Centralised   • Mutual recognition,  decentralised or  subject to referral   • Purely national EU All serious  • EudraVigilance database   • Marketing authorisation  holder of the suspected  medicinal product  15 days      Guideline on good pharmacovigila nce practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 68/90     VI.App3.2. Final arrangemen ts  Figure VI.4.  Business process map -  Suspected adverse reaction reporting in EU -  Final arrangement s     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 69/90     Table VI.6.  Process description -  Suspected adverse reaction reporting in EU - Final arrangement s  No. Step Description  Responsible  Organisation   1 Start .  Receive report . National Competent Authority (NCA)  or Marketing Authorisation Holder  (MAH) r eceives  information on a  suspected adverse reaction from a  patient, healthcare profe ssional or  other valid reporter.   If the case has been received from a n  EU NCA, do not  retransmit it to  EudraVigilance (EV).  MAH/NCA   2 Open case.  Open and create an individual case safety  report.  MAH/NCA   3 Is case serious?  If No go to step 3 .1.  If Yes, go  to step 4.   3.1 Is case from EEA?  If No go to step 11.1.   If Yes, go to step 4.   4 Send to EV.  Transmit the case (all serious and EU  non-serious) electronically, in ICH  E2B(R2) format as an xml message within  the relevant time  frame (15 or 90 days,  as ap plicable), to EV.  MAH/NCA   5 Receive in EV.  Receive the message in the EV.  EMA  6 Technical Validation (EV  Business Rules).  Every message that is received in EV is  validated against the EudraVigilance  Business Rules and an Acknowledgement  message (ACK) is created specifying  whether or not the message & the case(s)  therein are valid.   A valid message will have an ACK code  01. A non -valid message will have an ACK  code 02 (if a case contained therein is  non-valid) or 03 (if the message itself is  not correctly f ormatted).  EMA  7 Store in EV.  Once the case has been validated, it is  stored in the EV.  EMA  8 Send ACK.  The acknowledgement message created in  step 6 is transmitted to the case sender  no later than 2 business days following  receipt of the case.   Go to ste p 9 for the EMA’s next step.   Go to step 10  for MAH/NCA’s next step.  EMA  9 Was ACK code 01?  If No go to step 9 .1.  If Yes, go to step 9.2. EMA  9.1 Await corrected case.  The sender should correct every case with  an error ACK and retransmit it within the EMA   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 70/90     No. Step Description  Responsible  Organisation   regulatory reporting timelines. Periodically  the EMA should assess all cases with an  error ACK for which a corrected case has  not been transmitted and contact the  Qualified Person responsible for  PharmacoVigilance (QPPV) to inform these  missing corrected case s. If a sender fails  to correct cases, this information should  be incorporated into data quality  assessments and the appropriate  committees should be informed.   Go back to step 5  upon receipt of the  corrected case.   9.2 End. The case is now stored in EV  &,  following duplicate detection &  recoding will be available for signal  detection and data quality analyses.   If the case occurred in the EU and  was transmitted to EV by a MAH , it  will be  rerouted to the relevant NCA  (see VI. Appendix 3.3) EMA  10 Receive ACK.  Receive the ACK message, associate it  with the relevant case(s) and check to  ensure that the case was considered  valid.  MAH/NCA   11 Was ACK code 01?  If yes, go to step 11.1.   If no, then the regulato ry timeline clock  has not stopped and the case should be  corrected and re -transmitted to EV within  the relevant regulatory reporting  timelines. Day 0 remains as the day that  the first information was received. A 02 or  03 ACK does not constitut e new  informa tion. Go to step 12  (Correct case)  MAH/NCA   11.1 End. End the process for this version of the  case. Normal follow-up activities  should continue and if any follow-up  is received, return to step 1.  MAH/NCA   12 Correct case.  Correct the case to remove the err ors  identified in the ACK and retransmit the  case to EV (go back to step 4).  MAH/NCA      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 71/90     VI.App3.2.1 . Final arrangement s applicable to marketing aut horisation  holders   Table VI.7.  Reporting requirements applicable to marketing authorisation holders -  Final  arrangement s  Marketing  authorisation  procedure  Origin  Adverse reaction  type Destination  Time   frame   • Centralised   • Mutual recognition,  decentralised or  subject to referral   • Purely national EU All serious  • EudraVigilance database  15 days   All non -serious  • EudraVigilance database  90 days   Non- EU All serious  • EudraVigilance database  15 days     VI.App3.2.2 . Final arrangement s applicable to competent authorities in  Member States   Table VI.8.  Reporting requirements applicable to competent authorities in Member States -  Final  arrangement s  Market ing  authorisation  procedure  Origin  Adverse reaction  type Destination  Time   frame   • Centralised    • Mutual recognition,  decentralised or  subject to referral    • Purely national EU All serious  • EudraVigilance database  15 days   All non-serious  • EudraVigilance database  90 days    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 72/90     VI.App3 .3. Transmis sion and rerouting of ICSRs to competent authorities in  Member States  45  Figure VI.5.  Business process map -  Transmission and rerouting of ICSRs to competent authorities in  Member States                                                      45 Once the functionalities of the EudraVigilance database specified in [REG Art 24(2)] are esta blished.    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 73/90     Table VI.9.  Process description -  Transmission and rerouting of  ICSRs to competent authorities in  Member States  46  No. Name  Description  Responsible  Organisation   1 Start.   Receive report . Marketing Authorisation Holder  (MAH) r eceives  information on a  suspected adverse reaction from a  patient, healthcare professional or  other valid reporter.  MAH  2 Open case . Open and create an individual case safety  report . MAH  3 Send to E udraVigilance (E V). Transmit the case electronically, in ICH  E2B(R2) format as an xml message within  the relevant time  frames (15 or 90 days,  as appli cable), to EV. MAH  4 Receive in EV . Receive the message in the EV. EMA  5 Technical Validation (EV Business  Rules) . Every message that is received in EV  is  validated against the EudraVigilance  Business Rules and an Acknowledgement  message (ACK) is created  specifying  whether or not the message & the case(s)  therein are valid.   A valid message will have an ACK code  01. A non -valid message will have an ACK  code 02 (if a case contained therein is  non-valid) or 03 (if the message itself is  not correctly formatte d). EMA  6 Store in EV . Once the case has been validated, it is  stored in EV. EMA  7 Send ACK . The acknowledgement message created in  step 5 is transmitted to the case sender   no later than 2 business days following  receipt of the case . EMA  7.1 Receive ACK . Receive the ACK message, associate it  with the relevant case(s) and check to  ensure that the case was considered  valid.  MAH  7.2 Was ACK code 01?  If Yes, go to step 7.2.1.   If no, then the regulatory timeline clock  has not stopped and the case should be  corrected and re -transmitted to EV within  the relevant regulatory reporting  timelines. Day 0 remains as the day that  the first information was received. A 02 or  03 ACK does not constitute new  information. Go to step 7.2.2 (Correct MAH                                                   46 Once the functionalities of the EudraVigilance database specified in [REG Art 24(2)] are established.    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance prac tices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 74/90     No. Name  Description  Responsible  Organisation   case) .  7.2. 1 End. End the process of transmitting this  version of the case to EV. Normal  follow-up activities should continue  and if any follow-up is received,  return to step 1.  MAH  7.2. 2 Correct case . Correct the case to remove the errors  identified in the ACK and retransmit  the  case to EV (go back to step 3) . MAH  8 Was ACK code 01?  If yes, go to step 9.   If no, perform no further processing on  this version of the case and go to step 8.1  EMA  8.1 Await corrected case . The sender should correct every case with  an error ACK and  retransmit it within the  regulatory reporting timelines. Periodically  the EMA should assess all cases with an  error ACK for which a corrected case has  not been transmitted and contact the  Qualified Person responsible for  PharmacoVigilance (QPPV)  to inform  of  these missing corrected cases. If a sender  fails to correct cases, his information  should be incorporated into data quality  assessments and the appropriate  committees should be informed . EMA  9 Assess cases in message . Whenever a message has passed the  technical validation, the cases therein  should be immediately assessed to  determine the country where the reaction  occurred for regulatory reporting  purposes . EMA  10 Was case from EU? For every case, assess whether the  country of occurrence is in the EU .  If Yes, go to step 11.   If No, go to step 10.1  EMA  10.1 End. The case is now stored in EV &,  following duplicate detection &   recoding will be available for signal  detection and data quality analyses.  EMA  11 Extract cases from message . The cases occurring  in the EU will be  extracted from the message for  processing prior to retransmission . EMA  12 Technical Validation.  Message sender identifier (ICH M2 M.1.5)  of reporting MAH is inserted in  Sender  organisation field (ICH -E2B(R2) A.3.1.2)  prior to retransmis sion. This is to permit EMA   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 75/90     No. Name  Description  Responsible  Organisation   the receiving National Competent  Authority (NCA) to unambiguously identify  the MAH responsible f or transmitting the  case to EV.   13 Send to relevant NCA  The case is  transmitted to the r elevant  NCA of the Member State where the  reaction occurred with no other changes.   Where a Member State has more than  one NCA responsible for post -marketing  reports, the cases occurring in that  Member State are  sent to all relevant  NCAs.  EMA  14 Receive in PharmacoVigilance  DataBase (PhV DB ). The relevant NCA receives  the message in  its PhV DB  NCA  15 Technical Validation (EV Business  Rules) . Every message should be validated  against the EudraVigilance Business Rules  (the same business rules as in Step 5 and  an Acknowledgement message (ACK) is  created specifying whether or not the  message & the case(s) therein are valid.   A valid message will have an ACK code  01. A non -valid message will have an ACK  code 02 (if a case contained therein is  non-valid) or 03 (if the message itself is  not correctly format ted). NCA  16 Store in PharmacoVigilance  DataBase (PhV DB) . Once the case has been valida ted, it is  stored in the PhV DB . NCA  17 Send ACK . The acknowledgement message created in  step 15 i s transmitted to EV no later than  2 business days following receipt of the  case. NCA  17.1 End The case is now stored in the NCA ’s  Pharma coVigilance D ataBase &,   following duplicate detection &  recoding will be available for signal  detection and data quality analyses.  NCA  18 Receive ACK  The acknowledgement message sent in  step 17 is r eceive d & stored in EV. EMA  19 End The case has now been successfully  retransmitted to the relevant NCA.  EMA     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 76/90     VI. Appendix 4 Transmission of ICSRs to World Health  Organi zation (WHO)47  Figure VI.6.  Business process map -  Transmission of ICSR s to World Health Organi zation (WHO)  Collaborating Centre  for International Drug Monitoring                                                      47 Once the functionalities of the EudraVigilance database specified in [REG Art 24(2)] are established.    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 77/90     Table VI.10.  Process description -  Transmission of ICSRs  to World Health Organisation (WHO)  Collaborating Centre  for International Drug Monitoring48  No. Step Description  Responsible  Organisati on  1 Start.   Receive report . National Competent Authority (NCA)  or Marketing Authorisation Holder  (MAH) receives information on a  suspected adverse reaction from a  patient, healthcare professional or  other valid reporter.  MAH/NCA   2 Open case . Open and create an individual case safety  report . MAH/NCA   3 Send to EV . Transmit the case electronically, in ICH  E2B(R2) format as an xml message  within  the relevant time  frames (15 or 90 days,  as applicable), to EudraVigilance  (EV). MAH/NCA   4 Receive in EV . Receive  the message in EV. EMA  5 Technical Validation (EV  Business Rules).  Every message that is received in EV  is  validated against the EudraVigilance  Business Rules and an Acknowledgement  message (ACK) is created specifying  whether or not the message & the cas e(s)  therein are valid.   A valid message will have an ACK code  01. A non -valid message will have an ACK  code 02 (if a case contained therein is  non-valid) or 03 (if the message itself is  not correctly formatted).  EMA  6 Store in EV . Once the case has been v alidated, it is  stored in EV. EMA  7 Send ACK . The acknowledgement message created in  step 5 is transmitted to the case sender   no later than 2 business days following  receipt of the case . EMA  7.1 Receive ACK . Receive the ACK message, associate it  with the  relevant case(s) and check to  ensure that the case was considered valid.  MAH/NCA   7.2 Was ACK code 01?  If Yes, go to step 7.2.1.   If no, then the regulatory timeline clock  has not stopped and the case should be  corrected and re -transmitted to EV within  the relevant regulatory reporting  timelines. Day 0 remains as the day that  the first information was received. A 02 or  03 ACK does not constitute new  information. Go to step 7.2.2 (Correct MAH/NCA                                                    48 Once the functionalities of the Eudra Vigilance database specified in [REG Art 24(2)] are established.    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 78/90     No. Step Description  Responsible  Organisati on  case) .  7.2.1  End End the process of transmitting this  version  of the case to EV. Normal  follow-up activities should continue  and if any follow-up is received,  return to step 1.  MAH/NCA   7.2.2 Correct case  Correct the case to remove the errors  identified in the ACK and retransmit the  case to EV (go back to step 3) . MAH/NCA   8 Was ACK code 01?  If yes, go to step 9   If no, perform no further processing on  this version of the case and go to step 8.1  EMA  8.1 Await corrected case . The sender should correct every case with  an error ACK and retransmit within the  regulatory r eporting timelines. Periodically  the EMA should assess all cases with an  error ACK for which a corrected case has  not been transmitted and contact the  Qualified Person responsible for  PharmacoVigilance (QPPV)  to inform of  these missing corrected cases. If a sender  fails to correct cases, this information  should be incorporated into data quality  assessments and the appropriate  committees should be informed . EMA  9 Assess cases in message . Once a week, for every message that has  passed the technical validation, the cases  therein should be assessed to determine  the country where the reaction occurred  for regulatory reporting purposes . EMA  10 Was case from EU? For every case, assess whether the  country of occurrence is in the EU .  If Yes, go to step 11.   If No, g o to step 10.1 . EMA  10.1 End. The case is now stored in EV &,  following duplicate detection &  recoding will be available for signal  detection and data quality analyses.  EMA  11 Extract cases from message  The cases occurring in the EU is extracted  from the  message for processing prior to  retransmission . EMA  12 Redact & replace data in line  with EV Data Access policy . Prior to sending the cases to the World  Health Organi zation (WHO) Collaborating  Centr e for International Drug Monitoring ,  the extracted copie s of the cases have  some  data elements redacted and EMA   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 79/90     No. Step Description  Responsible  Organisati on  replaced in line with the EV Data Access  Policy in order to ensure personal data  protection .  13 Copy cases to physical media . The cases are  copied to physical media . EMA  14 Send to WHO . The physical  media is sent to WHO   Collaborating Centre . EMA  15 Receive physical media  WHO Collaborating Centre receives   the physical media.  WHO   16 Store cases in  PharmacoVigilance DataBase  (PhV DB) . Once the case s have been validated, they  are stored in the PhV DB.  WHO  17 End. Cases are  stored in the WHO  Collaborating Centre ’s  PharmacoVigilance D ataBase &,  following duplicate detection &  recoding will be available for signal  detection and data quality analyses.  WHO      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (G VP) – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 80/90     VI. Appendix 5 Nullification of cases   General pri nciples regarding the nullification of cases are provided in VI.C.6.2.2.10 . The following  recommendation s should also be applied :  • The value in the data element ‘Report nullification’ ( ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.13) should be set to ‘Yes’ and  the nullification reason should be provided in the data element  ‘Reason for nullification’  (ICH- EB(R2) A.1.13.1) . The nullification reason should be clear and concise to explain why this case is  no longer considered to be a valid r eport. For example a nullification reason stating, ‘the report no  longer meets the reporting criteria’ or ‘report sent previously in error’ are not detailed enough  explanations.   • An individual case can only be nullified by the sending organisation.   • Once an individual case has been nullified, the case cannot be reactivated.   • If it becomes necessary to resubmit the case that has been previously nullified, a new ‘Sender’s  (case) safety report unique identifier’ ( ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.0.1) and ‘Worldwide unique case  identification number’ ( ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.10) should be assigned.   • Individual versions  (i.e. follow -up reports ) of a case  cannot be nullified, only the entire individual  case to which they refer.   Table VI.11.  Examples of scenarios for which ICSRs should be nullified   Ex. Scenario Action   1 An individual case has been identified as  a duplicate of another individual case  previously submitted.  One of the individual cases should be nullified. The  remaining valid case should be updated with any  additional relevant  information from the nullified  case.  2 A wrong ‘Worldwide unique c ase  identification number’ (ICH -E2B(R2)  A.1.10) was accidentally used and does  not refer to an existing case.  The case with the wrong ‘Worldwide unique c ase  identification number’ (ICH -E2B(R2) A.1.10) shou ld  be nullified.   A new case should be created with a correct  ‘Worldwide unique case identification number’.   3 On receipt of further information it is  confirmed that that the adverse reaction  occurred before the suspect drug(s) was  taken.  The case should b e nullified.   4 On receipt of further information on an  individual case, it is confirmed that the  patient d id not receive the suspect drug.  Minimum reporting criteria for  an ICSR  as outlined in VI.B.2  are no longe r met.  The case should be nullified.   5 On receipt of further information it is  confirmed by the same reporter that the  reported adverse reaction(s) did not  occur to the patient.  Minimum reporting The case should be nullified.    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 81/90     Ex. Scenario Action   criteria for  an ICSR as outlined in  VI.B.2 are no longer met.   6 On receipt of further information it is  confirmed that there was no valid patient  for the individual case. Minimum  reporting criteria for  an ICSR as outlined  in VI.B.2  are no longer met.  If it is not possible to obtain confirmation of the  patient’s existence, then the case should be nullified.   • Individual cases that have been nullified should not be used for scientific evaluation , however , they  should remain in the database for auditing purposes.   • In addition, in case of duplicate reports where one report needs to be nullified, the update of the  remaining case should be performed in the form of a follow -up report49. Information on the  identi fication of the nullified case(s) should be provided in the data element ‘Source(s) of the case  identifier (e.g. name of the company, name of regulatory agency)’ ( ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.11.1 ) and in  the data element ‘Case identifier(s)’ ( ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.11.2) .  Table VI.12.  Examples of scenarios for which ICSRs should NOT  be nullified   Ex. Scenario  Action   7 A wrong ‘Worldwide unique case  identification number’ ( ICH E2B(R2)   A.1.10) was accidentally used. This  wrong ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.10 ‘Worldwide  unique case identification number ’  referred to an existing case.  The report with the wrong ‘Worldwide unique case  identification number’ ( ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.10) should  not be nullified.   A follow -up report should be submitted to correct  the information previously submitted.   A new ICSR should be created and submitted with  the correct ‘Worldwide unique case identification  number’.   8 On receipt of further information on an  individual case, it is confirmed that the  patient did not receive the marketing  authorisation holder ’s suspect drug.  However , the patient received other  suspect drugs and the minimum  reporting criteria for an ICSR are still  met. The case should not be nullified.   9 On receipt of further information the  reporter has confirmed that the reported  adverse reaction is no longer consi dered  to be related to the suspect medicinal  product (s). The case should not be nullified.   A follow -up report should be submitted within the  appropriate time frame with the updated information  on the case.                                                    49 As presented in the Guideline on the Detection and Management of Duplicate Individual Cases and Individual Case Safety  Reports (ICSRs) , EMA/13432/2009 .   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 82/90     Ex. Scenario  Action   10 Change of the individual case from  serious to non- serious (downgrading).  The case should not be nullified.   A follow -up report should be submitted with the data  element  ‘Seriousness’ (ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.5.1)  populated with the value  ‘No’ without selection of a  value for the data element  ‘Seriousness crit eria’  (ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.5.2) .  The data element  ‘Does this case fulfil the local  criteria for an expedited report?’ ( ICH-E2B(R2)  field  A.1.9) should remain populated with the value  ‘Yes’.  11 The primary source country has  changed, which has an impact on the   ICH-E2B(R2)  convention regarding the  creation of the ‘Worldwide unique case  identification number’  (ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.10) . The case should not be nullified.   The ‘Sender’s (case) safety report unique identifier’  (ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.0.1) can be updated on the ba sis  of the new primary source country code. However,  the ‘Worldwide unique case identification number’  (ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.10) should remain unchanged.   If, for some technical reason, the sender’s local  system is not fully ICH -E2B(R2)  compliant and  cannot follow this policy, then the sender should  nullify the original case. A new case should be  created with a new ‘Worldwide unique case  identification number’ (ICH -E2B(R2) A.1.10)  reflecting the changed primary source country code.  The ‘Worldwide unique case iden tification number’  (ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.10) of the case that was nullified  should be reflected in the data elements  ‘Other case  identifiers in previous transmissions ’ (ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.11) .  12 The suspected medicinal product  belongs  to another marketing author isation  holder  (e.g. a product with the same  active substance but marketed under a  different invented name).  The case should not be nullified.   It is recommended that the initial sender informs the  other marketing authorisation holder  about this case  (inclu ding the ‘Worldwide unique case identification  number’ (ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.10) used). The original  organisation should also submit a follow -up report to  provide this new information.   The other concerned marketing authorisation holder   should create a new case and specify the reference  case number and the name of the initial sending  marketing authorisation holder  in the data elements   ‘Source(s) of the case identifier (e.g. name of the  company name of regulatory agency)’ (ICH -E2B(R2)  A.1.11.1) and ‘Case identifier(s)’ (ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.11.2) . This will allow grouping  the cases in the  EudraVigilance database.    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 83/90     Ex. Scenario  Action   13 The suspected medicinal product taken  does not belong to the marketing  authorisation holder  (same active  substance, the invented name is  unknown and the re port originates from  a country, where the marketing  authorisation holder  has no marketing  authorisation for the medicinal product in  question).  The case should not be nullified.   The marketing authorisation holder  should submit a  follow -up report with this information within the  appropriate time frame.   14 The case is mistakenly reported by the  marketing authorisation holder  A  although the marketing authorisation  holder  B as co -marketer is responsible  for reporting the case.  The case should not be nullified.   An explanation should be sent by the marketing  authorisation holder  A to the co- marketer marketing  authorisation holder  B that the case has already  been reported. The marketing authorisation holder  B  should provide any additional information on the  case as a follow -up report with the same ‘Worldwide  unique case identification number’  (ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.10) .     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 84/90     VI. Appendix 6 Data quality monitoring of ICSRs transmitted  electronically   Figure VI.7.  Business process map -  Data quality monitoring of ICSRs transmitted electron ically     Guideline on  good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 85/90     Table VI.13.  Process description -  Data quality monitoring of ICSRs transmitted electronically   The business map and process description describe a system where there is  a separati on between a  PharmacoVigilance D ataBase (PhV DB) holder , the PhV DB holder ’s data Quality Assessors (QA) and  the PhV DB holder’s auditors; however this is not mandatory and these functions may be performed by  the same people or groups.   No. Step Description  Responsible  Organisation   1 Start.   Decide upon Sender to  evaluate . Select one of  the organisations that  has transmitted ICSRs to your  database.   Inputs into this decision can incl ude,  but need not be limited to findings  from previous assessments and  requests from pharmacovigilance  audits . PhV DB  holder   2 Sample ICSRs from Sender.  Take a sample of ICSRs that were  transmitted by the selected sender  QA  3 Check for data quality errors . Check the cases for data quality errors.   The cases should be assessed against  appropriate published standards and  similar documents, for example the  MedDRA  Term Selection Points to  Consider document.  QA  4 Write report and send to PhV  DB holder . The findings from the data quality  assessment should be collated into a  single report. These can include related  checks, such as 15 -day reporting  compliance, whether  error reports are  corrected and similar statistical  information.  QA  5 Errors found?  Were any errors found during the analysis  of the cases?   If No, go to step 5.1 .  If Yes go to steps 5.2, 5.3 & 6 . PhV DB  holder   5.1 End. If there were no errors found, the n  no further action needs to be taken.  The process can end until the next  time the sender is assessed.   The PhV DB  holder may choose to  share this information with the  assessed sender and their auditors  who may wish to factor this in to  determinations of wh ich sender to  assess.  PhV DB  holder   5.2 Highlight for PhV audit.  If the PhV DB holder’s organisation has an  audit department, any significant findings  should always be shared with them.  PhV DB holder    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 86/90     No. Step Description  Responsible  Organisation   5.2.1  Prioritise for Audit . The audit or inspections  department  should use the information provided to  them to feed into decisions about  prioritising organisations for audit or  inspection . PhV DB  holder’s  auditors   5.3 INPUT: Findings from  previous assessments . Any errors found (or even lack thereof)  should  be incorporated into decisions  about which senders to evaluate & should  also inform the performance of the  assessments (e.g. targeting particular  types of case) and the report  (documenting whether previously  identified issues have been addressed).  PhV DB  holder   6 Inform sender of findings . Inform the sender of the findings,  including requested remedial actions (e.g.  retransmitting certain cases) and time  frames for those actions  PhV DB holder   7 Request meeting?  The sender should have the option to  choose  to request a meeting to discuss  the findings and appropriate remedial  action and time frames.   If no meeting is requested, go to step 7.1.  If a meeting is requested go to step 8.  Sender   7.1 Address the findings &  retransmit any required cases.  Address all  findings, take necessary steps  to prevent recurrence of such findings &  retransmit any required cases.  Sender   7.2 End. Once all findings have been  addressed,  the necessary steps taken  to preve nt recurrence of such  findings and any required cases have  been retransmitted, the process can  end until the next time the sender is  assessed.  Sender   8 Have meeting . Upon request from one party, a meeting  should be held to discuss the findings of  quality assessments and appropriate  remedial and preventive actions to  ensure  that the cases in the database are correct  and shall be so in the future . PhV DB  holder &  Sender   9 End. Unless further action has been  specified (e.g. future meetings or  assessments), the process can end  until the next time the sender is  assessed . PhV DB  holder      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 87/90     VI. Appendix 7 Duplicate detection and management of ICSRs   Figure VI.8.  Business process map -  Duplicate detection and management of ICSRs      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 88/90     Table VI.14.  Process description -  Duplicate detection and management of ICSRs   No. Step Description  Responsible  organisation   1 Start.   Potential duplicate  detected . Potential duplicates have been  detected  by the PharmacoVigilance  DataB ase (PhV DB) holder   organisation  or the PhV DB holder  organisation is notified of potential  duplicates by a receiver of the cases . PhV DB  holder   2 Assessment . All potential duplicates need  assessment by the organisation  Duplicate Management Team (DMT)  to confirm or deny their duplicate  status.   Following assessment there are 4 possible  outcomes:   • Not a Duplicate (go to step 2.1) ,  • More Information N eeded (go to  step 2.2) ,  • Duplicates From Different Sender  (go to step 2.3) ,  • Duplicates From Same Sender (go  to step 2.4) .  The outcome of all assessments should be  recorded to avoid continually reassessing  the same case s when further  versions  arrive. These r ecorded outcomes can also  be used to refine the duplicate detection  methods during future development . DMT  2.1 Not a Duplicate: Mark as  not a duplicate . If the cases are assessed as not being  duplicates of one another, then mark both  cases as such.   Go to step 3 (End).  DMT  2.2 More information needed:  Log in tracking tool.  There should be some form of tool for  tracking when more information is  needed, when correspondence has been  sent, whether an answer was received  and, if so, when.  DMT  2.2.1 Write to Se nder. More information is required in order to  be able to make a definite assessment.   The sender (who transmitted the case(s)  in question to the PhVDB holder’s  organisation) should be contacted to  request specific information necessary to  confir m or deny duplication.   Personal data protection must remain  paramount, so unsecured communications  should not include sufficient data to PhV DB  holder    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 89/90     No. Step Description  Responsible  organisation   identify an individual.   2.2.2 Receive request, draft  and send response . Once a request  for more information has  been received, the Sender of the case  should respond promptly, either as a  follow -up version of the case or by  responding to the requester.   The DMT should then reassess the case  based on the new information (Go back to  step 2) . Sender   2.3 Duplicates Differe nt  Senders: Create or  nominate master . Once cases have been determined to be  duplicates of one another  and have been  transmitted  to the PhV DB holder by  different senders or reporters, then they  should be merged under a master case,  following the process d escribed in chapter  2.3 “Management of duplicate cases” of  the Guideline on the Detection and  Management of Duplicate Individual Cases  and Individual Case Safety Reports  (ICSRs) , EMA/13432/2009 . DMT  2.3.1 Deal with follow -ups. If any follow -ups arrive for any of the  cases, this information may require a  reassessment of the master case.   Reassess and, if necessary, amend the  maste r case as with any received follow - up information.   Go to step 3 (End) . DMT  2.4 Duplicates Same Sender:  Log in tracking tool . Once cases have been determined to be  duplicates of one another, and have been   transmitted to the PhV DB holder by the  same sender , then this decision and the  correspondence referred to in step 2.4.1  should be logged in the tracking tool  referred to in step 2.2 . DMT  2.4.1  Write to Sender . The sender organisation, as the source of  the duplicates, should be contacted in  accordance wit h chapter 2.3.3 of the  Guideline on the Detection and  Management of Duplicate Individual Cases  and Individual Case Safety Reports  (ICSRs), EMA/13432/2009 .  The sender should be asked to confirm or  deny duplication and take appropriate  steps  in accordance with chapter 2.3.1 of  the aforementioned Guideline.  PhV DB  holder   2.4.2  Receive request . Receive and log the communication Sender    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 1)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 1  (superseded version)  Page 90/90     No. Step Description  Responsible  organisation   containing information on suspected  duplicates in the Sender’s PhV DB.   2.4.3 Is it a duplicate?  Assess the potential duplicates. Are the  cases duplicates of one another?   If Yes, go to step 2.4.3.1.   If No, go to step 2.4.3.2 . Sender   2.4.3.1  Merge dupli cates. Merge the duplicates, taking into account  Flowchart 1 of c hapter 2.3.1.3 of the  Guideline on the Detection and  Management of Duplicate Individual Cases  and Individual Case Safety R eports  (ICSRs), EMA/13432/2009 . Sender   2.4.3.1.1  Send follow -up/nullification . For the cases that  are merged under the  master, send a nullification message to  the PhV DB  holder.   For the case  that is master , send the  updated case to the PhV DB holder  as  follow -up information. The merging &  transmission should be completed  promptly and in any case within 15 days  of the date of receipt of the information  from the PhV DB holder that the cases  were co nsidered to be possible duplicates.  This date should be treated as the date of  receipt of most recent information for  regulatory reporting purposes.  Sender   2.4.3.1.2  End. The duplicates have now been  removed from both the Sender’s  system and that of the P hV DB h older  and only the master should be  available for signal detection and  data quality analyses.   Unless follow-up information is  received, then no further steps need  be taken.  Sender   2.4.3.2  Draft and send a response . Reply to the PhV DB holder who sent the  communication informing that the cases  are not duplicates . Sender   2.4.3.2.1  Mark as “Not a  duplicate”.  Upon receipt of confirmation from the  Sender organisation that the cases are  not duplicates, mark the cases as “Not a  duplicate” & go to step 3 ( End). DMT  3 End. No further action is required for this  couple . DMT   


 
https://clinchoice.com/pharmacovigilance-literature-monitoring-best-practices/
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/scientific-guideline/guideline-good-pharmacovigilance-practices-gvp-module-vi-collection-management-submission-reports_en.pdf
  See websites for contact details   European Medicines Agency  www.ema.europa.eu   Heads of Medicines Agencies  www.hma.eu  The European Medicines Agency is   an agency of the European Union        © European Medicines Agency and Heads of Medicines Agencies, 2017.  Reproduct ion is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.    28 July 2017    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2*   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)   Module VI – Collection , mManagement and reporting submission of reports of  suspected adverse reactions to medicinal products  (Rev 2)  Date for coming into effect of first version  2 July 2012   Date for coming into effect of Revision 1  16 September 2014  Draft Revision 2*  finalised by the Agency in collaboration with Member States  15 July 2016   Draft Revision 2 agreed by the European Risk Management Facilitation Group  (ERMS FG ) 26 July 2016   Draft Revision 2 adopted by Executive Director  4 August 2016   Release for public consultation  8 August 2016    End of consultation (deadline for comments)  14 October 2016   Revised draft Revision 2 finalised by the Agency in collaborati on with Member  States  6 July 2017   Revised draft Revision 2 agreed by the EU Network Pharmacovigilance  Oversight Group (EU -POG) 25 July 2017   Revised draft Revision 2 adopted by Executive Director as final * 28 July 2017   Date for coming into effect of Revi sion 2 ** 22 November 2017     This track -change version identifies the majority of changes (revisions post -consultation marked in  red) introduced to the public consultation version (revisions marked in blue ) of this document as the  Agency’s response to the c omments received from the public consultation. This track -change version is  published for transparency purposes  and must not be taken or quoted as the final version.   * For this reason, the timetable above, and in particular the date of coming into effect,  apply only the  clean version published as final.   For the final version of this module and any future updates, please see the GVP webpage of the  Agency’s website.    * Note: Revision 2 contains the following:    - Updated guidance on ICSRs submission, follow -up, duplicate detection and data quality management, taking into account the  implementation of the new EudraVigilance system, and of the simplified submission of ICSRs in the EU in line with the  provisions provided in Article 24 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2 004 and Article 107 and 107a of Directive 2001/83/EC;   - Updated guidance on the validation of ICSRs based on patients and reporters identifiability;      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 2/225     - Updated guidance on the management of ICSRs described in the medical literature;   - Updated guidance on the col lection of information on patient’s age;   - Updated guidance on the management of suspected adverse reactions reported through medical enquiry and product  information services;   - New guidance on the electronic submission modalities of ICSRs under the new ICH -E2B(R3) format;   - New guidance on the management of individual reports of off -label use, based on the Reflection Paper on Collecting and  Reporting Information on Off -label Use in Pharmacovigilance ( EMA/293194/2016 ), published for public consultation in 2016;   - New guidance on the management of reports from post -authorisation efficacy studies;   - Transfer of the guidance on emerging safety issue to GVP Module IX;   - Editorial amendments to align the format with other GVP Modules.        Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 3/225     TABLE OF CONTENTS   VI.A. Introduction  ................................ ................................ .......................  7  VI.A.1. Terminology  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 8  VI.A.1.1. Adverse reaction, causality  ................................ ................................ .............  8  VI.A.1.2. Overdose, off -label use, misuse, abuse, occupational exposure, medication error,  falsified medicinal product  ................................ ................................ ............................  8  VI.A.1.3. Acti ve substance, excipient, medicinal product,  ................................ ................  9  VI.A.1.4. Primary source, healthcare professional and consumer  ................................ ..... 10  VI.A.1.5. Medica l confirmation  ................................ ................................ ....................  11  VI.A.1.6. Seriousness  ................................ ................................ ................................  11  VI.A.1.7. Individual case safety report (ICSR)  ................................ ..............................  12  VI.A.1.8 nullFlavors  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 12  VI.B. Structures and processes ................................ ................................ .. 13  VI.B.1. Collection of reports  ................................ ................................ .......................  13  VI.B.1.1. Unsolicited reports  ................................ ................................ .......................  13  VI.B.1.1.1. Spontaneous reports  ................................ ................................ .................  13  VI.B.1.1.2. Literature reports  ................................ ................................ .....................  14  VI.B.1.1.3. Reports from non -medical sources  ................................ ..............................  15  VI.B.1.1.4. Information on suspected adverse reacti ons from the internet or digital media  . 15  VI.B.1.2. Solicited reports  ................................ ................................ ..........................  16  VI.B.2. Validation of reports  ................................ ................................ .......................  16  VI.B.3. Follow -up of reports  ................................ ................................ .......................  19  VI.B.4. Data management  ................................ ................................ .........................  21  VI.B.5. Quality management  ................................ ................................ ......................  21  VI.B.6. Special situations  ................................ ................................ ...........................  22  VI.B.6.1. Use of a medicinal product during pregnancy or breastfeeding  ..........................  22  VI.B.6.2. Use of a medicinal product in a paediatric or elderly population  .........................  23  VI.B.6.3. Reports of overdose, abuse, misuse, medication error or occup ational exposure  . 24  VI.B.6.4. Lack of therapeutic efficacy  ................................ ................................ ..........  24  VI.B.7. Submission of individual case safety reports (ICSRs)  ................................ ..........  25  VI.B.7.1. Submission time frames of ICSRs  ................................ ................................ .. 26  VI. B.7.2 Report nullification  ................................ ................................ ......................  26  VI.B.7.3. Amendment report  ................................ ................................ ......................  26  VI.B.8. Modalities for submission of individual case safety reports (ICSRs)  .......................  27  VI.C. Operation of the EU network  ................................ .............................  29  VI.C.1. Management of individual safety reports for clinical trials, post -authorisation studies,  compassionate use and named patient use in the EU  ................................ .....................  30  VI.C.1.1. Management of individual safety reports for clinical trials  ................................ . 32  VI.C.1.2. Management of individual safety reports for non -interven tional post -authorisation  studies, compassionate use and named patient use ................................ .......................  33  VI.C.1.2.1. Non -interventional post -authorisation studies  ................................ ..............  34  VI.C.1.2.1.1. Non -interventional post -authorisation studies with a design based on primary  data collection  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........  34  VI.C.1.2.1.2. Non -interventional post -authorisation studies with a desi gn based on  secondary use of data  ................................ ................................ ...............................  36  VI.C.1.2.2. Compassionate use and named patient use  ................................ ..................  37     Guideline on good pharmaco vigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 4/225     VI.C.2. Collection of reports  ................................ ................................ .......................  37  VI.C.2.1. Responsibilities of Member States ................................ ................................ .. 37  VI.C.2.2. Responsibilities of the marketing authorisation holder in the EU  ........................  39  VI.C.2.2.1. Spontaneous reports  ................................ ................................ .................  41  VI.C.2.2.2. Solicited reports  ................................ ................................ .......................  41  VI.C.2.2.3. Case reports published in the medical literature  ................................ ...........  42  VI.C.2.2.3.1 Monitoring of the medical literature by the European Medicines Agency  .........  42  VI.C.2.2.3.2 Exclusion criteria for the submission of ICSRs published in the medical literature  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..............................  43  VI.C.2.2.4. Suspected adverse reactions related to quality defect or fals ified medicinal  products  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..................  44  VI.C.2.2.5. Suspected transmission via a medicinal product of an infectious agent  ............  44  VI.C.2.2.6. Eme rging safety issues  ................................ ................................ ..............  45  VI.C.2.2.7. Period between the submission of the marketing authorisation application and  the granting of the marketing authorisation  ................................ ................................ . 46  VI.C.2.2.8. Period after suspension, revocation or withdrawal of marketing authorisation  .. 46  VI.C.2.2.9. Period during a public health emergency  ................................ .....................  46  VI.C.2.2.10. Reports from class action lawsuits  ................................ ............................  47  VI.C.2.2.11. Reports from patient support programmes and market research programmes  47  VI.C.2.2.12. Reporting of off -label use  ................................ ................................ .........  47  VI.C.3. Submission time frames of ICSRs in EU  ................................ ............................  49  VI.C.4. Submission modalities of ICSRs in EU  ................................ ...............................  50  VI.C.5. Collaboration with the World Health Organisation and the European Monitoring  Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction  ................................ ................................ ...........  52  VI.C.6. Electronic exchange of safety information in the EU  ................................ ............  53  VI.C.6.1. Applicable guidelines, definitions, international f ormats, standards and  terminologies  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...........  53  VI.C.6.2. Electronic submission of individual case safety reports  ................................ ..... 54  VI.C.6.2.1. EudraVig ilance Database Modules  ................................ ...............................  55  VI.C.6.2.1.1. Adverse reaction data collected in the EudraVigilance Post -Authorisation  Module  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....................  55  VI.C.6.2.1.2. Adverse reaction data collected in the EudraVigilance Clinical Trial Module  .... 56  VI.C.6.2.2. Preparation of individual case safety reports  ................................ ................  57  VI.C.6.2.2.1. General principles  ................................ ................................ ..................  57  VI.C.6.2.2.2. Information on suspect, interacting and concomitant medicinal products  ...... 58  VI.C.6.2.2.3. Suspected adverse reactions  ................................ ................................ ... 65  VI.C.6.2.2.4. Case narrative, comments and causality assessment  ................................ .. 67  VI.C.6.2.2.5. Test results  ................................ ................................ ...........................  69  VI.C.6.2.2.6. Supplementary records/information  ................................ .........................  70  VI.C.6.2.2.7. Follow -up information  ................................ ................................ .............  71  VI.C.6.2.2.8. Amendment report  ................................ ................................ .................  74  VI.C.6.2.2.9. Nullification of cases ................................ ................................ ...............  76  VI.C.6.2.2.10. Data protection laws ................................ ................................ .............  78  VI.C.6.2.2.11. Handling of languages  ................................ ................................ ..........  79  VI.C.6.2.3. Special situations  ................................ ................................ .....................  80  VI.C.6.2.3.1. Use of a medicinal product during pregnancy or breastfeeding  ....................  80  VI.C.6.2.3.2. Suspected adverse reaction reports published in  the medical literature  .........  83     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 5/225     VI.C.6.2.3.3. Suspected adverse reactions related to overdose, abuse, off -label use, misuse,  medication error or occupational exposure  ................................ ................................ ... 84  VI.C.6.2.3.4. Lack of therapeutic efficacy  ................................ ................................ ..... 87  VI.C.6.2.3.5. Suspected adverse reactions related to quality defect or falsified medicinal  products  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..................  87  VI.C.6.2.3.6. Suspected transmission via a medicinal product of an infectious agent  .........  91  VI.C.6.2.3.7. Reports of suspected adverse reac tions originating from organised data  collection systems and other systems  ................................ ................................ ..........  92  VI.C.6.2.3.8. Receipt of missing minimum information  ................................ ..................  94  VI.C.6.2.4. Data quality of individual case safety reports transmitted electronically and  duplicate management  ................................ ................................ ..............................  95  VI.C.6.2.5. Electronic re -transmission of ICSRs between multiple senders  and receivers  .... 98  VI.C.6.2.6. Electronic submission of ICSRs through the headquarter of a marketing  authorisation holder  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 99  VI.C.6.3. Electronic submission of information on medicinal products  ............................  100   VI. Appendix 1 Process for follow -up of ICSRs  ................................ ........  101   VI.App.1.1 Follow -up of ICSRs by competent authorities in Member States and marketing  authorisation holders  ................................ ................................ ...............................  101   VI.App.1.2 Follow -up of ICSRs by competent authorities in Member States with involvement  of marketing authorisation holders  ................................ ................................ ............  113   VI. Appendix 2 Detailed guidance on the monitoring of the medical  literature  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 125   VI.App.2.1 Wh en to start and stop searching in the medical literature  ...........................  125   VI.App.2.2 Where to look  ................................ ................................ .........................  125   VI.App.2.3 Database Searches  ................................ ................................ .................  126   VI.App.2.3.1 Precision and recall  ................................ ................................ ..............  126   VI.App.2.3.2 Search construction  ................................ ................................ ..............  126   VI.App.2.3.3 Selection of product terms  ................................ ................................ .... 126   VI.App.2.3.4 Selection of search terms  ................................ ................................ ...... 127   VI.App.2.3.5 Limits to a search  ................................ ................................ .................  127   VI.App.2.4 Record keeping  ................................ ................................ .......................  128   VI.App.2.5 Outputs  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 128   VI.App.2.6 Review an d selection of articles  ................................ ................................  128   VI.App.2.7 Day zero  ................................ ................................ ................................  129   VI.App.2.8 Duplicates  ................................ ................................ ..............................  129   VI.App.2.9 Contracting out literature search services  ................................ ..................  129   VI.App.2.10 Electronic submission of copies of articles on suspected adverse reactions  published in the medical literature  ................................ ................................ ............  130   VI.App.2.11 Examples for the submission as ICSRs of suspected adverse reactions described  in the medical literature and referring to more than one patient  ................................ ... 132   VI. Appendix 3 Modalities for the submission of ICSRs in EU  ..................  136   VI.App.3.1. Modalities applicable to competent authorities in Member States and to  marketing au thorisation holders  ................................ ................................ ...............  136   VI.App.3.2. Requirements applicable to marketing authorisation holders  ........................  151   VI.App.3.3. Requirements appl icable to competent authorities in Member States  ............  151   VI.App.3.4 Rerouting to competent authorities in Member States of ICSRs submitted to  EudraVigilance by marketing authorisation holders  ................................ ......................  152      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 6/225     VI. Appendix 4 Submission of ICSRs to the World Health Organisation  (WHO)  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 161   VI. Appendix 5 Nullification of cases  ................................ .......................  169   VI. Appendix 6 Data quality monitoring of ICSRs transmitted electronically  ................................ ................................ ................................ ................  175   VI. Appendix 7 Duplicate detection and management of ICSR s ...............  183   VI.App.7.1 Duplicate detection in EudraVigilance – Collaboration between the Agency,  competent authorities in Member States and marketing authorisation holders - Duplicate  ICSRs submitte d to EudraVigilance by the same sender and identified by the Agency  ...... 183   VI.App.7.2 Duplicate detection in EudraVigilance – Collaboration between the Agency,  competent authorities in Member Sta tes and marketing authorisation holders – Duplicate  ICSRs submitted to EudraVigilance by different senders and identified by the Agency  ...... 192   VI.App.7.3 Duplicate detection in EudraVigilance – Collaboration between the Agency,  competent authorities in Member States  and marketing authorisation holders – Duplicate  ICSRs submitted to EudraVigilance by the same sender and identified by the sender  organisation prior to the detection by the Agency  ................................ .......................  201   VI.App.7.4 Duplicate detection in EudraVigilance – Collaboration between the Agency,  competent authorities in Member States and marketing authorisation holders - Duplicate  ICSRs submitted to E udraVigilance by different senders  and identified by an organisation  prior to the detection by the Agency  ................................ ................................ .........  206   VI.App.7.5 Duplicate detection in EudraVigilance – Collaboration between the Age ncy,  competent authorities in Member States and marketing authorisation holders – Duplicate  ICSRs identified as part of signal management as outlined in GVP Module IX -  ..............  218        Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 7/225     VI.A. Introduction   VI.A.1. Scope This Module of GVP addresses the legal requirements detailed in TitleTITLE  IX of Directive  2001/83/EC [DIR] and chapter Chapter  3 of TITLE  II of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004  [REG] , which are  applicable to  competent authorities in Member States, marketing authorisation holde rs and the Agency   as regards the collection, data management and reporting submission of individual reports  of  suspected adverse reactions  (serious and non -serious)  associated with medicinal products for human  use authorised in the European Union ( EU).   Section VI.B. of this Module highlights the general principles , based on the pharmacovigilance  guidelines E2A, E2B  and E2D of the International Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements  for Pharmaceutic als for Human Use (ICH)  (see GVP Annex IV ), in relation to the collection, recording  and submiss ion of individual reports of suspected adverse reactions associated with medicinal product s  for human use . The definitions and guidance  provided in Section VI.A. and the  EU specific  requirements presented in Section  VI.C. should be followed .   All applicable legal requirements  are referenced in the way explained in the GVP Introductory Cover  Note and are usually identifiable by the modal verb “shall”. Guidance for the implementation of legal  requirements is provided using the modal verb “should”.   The guidance provided in th is Module does not address the collection, management and submission  of  individual reports of events or patterns of use, which do not result in suspected adverse reactions  (e.g.  asymptomatic overdose, abuse, misuse  or medication error) and which are not re quired to be  submitted  as individual case safety reports (ICSRs) . This information may however need to be  collected and presented in periodic safety update reports for the interpretation of safety data or for the  benefit risk evaluation of medicinal produc ts. With regard to this , the guidance provided in GVP Module  VII applies.   Recommendations regarding the report ing of emerging safety issues or of suspected adverse reactions  occurring in special situations are also presented  in this Module . The requirements provided in  chapter sChapters  IV, V and IX of the  Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 520/2012  [IR]  shall be applied in this Module.   The guidance provided in this Module does not address  the collection, management and reporting of  events or patterns of use, which do not result in suspected adverse reactions  (e.g. asymptomatic  overdose, abuse, off-label use , misuse  or medication error) or which do are not require require d to be  reported submitted  as individual case safety report  or as emerging safety issues. This information may  however need to be collected and presented in periodic safety update reports for th e interpretation of  safety data or for the benefit risk evaluation of medicinal products. In this aspect , the guidance  provided in  GVP Module VII  applies.   Section B of this Module highlights the general principles in relation to the collection, recording and  of  reports of suspected adverse reactions associated with medicinal product s for human use , which  are  applicable to competent authorities and marketing authorisation holders. The definitions and  recommendations provided in VI.A. should be followed.  EU requirements are presented in VI.C..   All applicable legal requirements  detailed in this Module  are referenced in the way explained in the GVP  Introductory Cover Note  and are usually identifiable by the modal verb “shall”. Guidance for the  implementation of legal requirements is provid ed using the modal verb “should”.      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 8/225     VI.A. 21. Definitions and tTerminology   The definitions provided  in Articleicle 1 of Directive 2001/83/EC  of Directive 2001/83/EC  shall be  applied  for the purpose of this  Module ; of particular relevance are those provided  in this Section . Some  general principles presented  in the ICH-E2A and ICH -E2D guidelines  (see GVP Ann ex IVGVP Annex IV )  should also be adhered to ; they  are included  as well in this Section (see GVP Annex I  for all definitions  applicable to GVP) .   VI.A. 1.1. Adverse  reaction , causality   VI.A.2. 1. Adverse reaction :   An adverse reaction  is aA response to a medicinal product which is noxious and unintended   [DIR Art  1 ]. This includes adverse reactions w hich arise from:(11)]. Adverse reactions may arise from use of  the product within or outside the terms of the marketing authorisation or from occupational exposure  [DIR Art 101(1)].  Use outside the marketing authorisation include s off-label use, overdose, misuse,  abuse and medication errors .    Causality: the use of a medicinal product  within the terms of the marketing authorisation ;  the use outside the terms of the marketing authorisation, including overdose, off-label use, misus e,  abuse and medication error s;  occupational exposure.   VI.A.2. 1.1. Causality   In accordance with ICH-E2A (see GVP Annex IV ), the definition of an adverse reaction implies at least  a reasonable possibility of a causal relationship between a suspected medicinal product and an adverse  event1. (see GVP Annex I ). An adverse  reaction, in contrast to an adverse event, is characterised b y  the fact that a causal relationship between a medicinal product  and an occurrence is suspected. For  regulatory reporting purposes, as detailed in ICH -E2D (see GVP Annex IV ), if an event is  spontaneously reported, even if the relationship is unknown or unstated, it meets the definition of an  adverse reaction. Therefore all spontaneous reports notified by healthcare professionals2 or  consumers2 are considered suspected adverse reactions, since they convey the suspicions of the  primary source s3, unless the reporter s specifically st ate that they believe the event s to be unrelated  or  that a causal relati onship can be excluded .  VI.A. 21.12.2. Overdose , off-label use, misuse, abuse, occupational  exposure , medication error , falsified medicinal product   a. Overdose : This refers to the administration of a quant ity of a medicinal product given  per  administration or cumulatively , which is above the maximum  recommended dose according to the  authorised product information. Clinical  judgement should always be applied.   b. Off-label use : This relates  to situations where the medicinal product is intentionally used  for a  medical purpose  not in accordance with the  authorised  product information terms of the marketing  authorisation .                                                    1 An adverse event  is defined in ICH -E2D (see GVP Annex IV ) as any untoward medical occurrence in a patient  administered a medicinal product and which does not necessarily have to have a causal r elationship with this treatment .  2 See VI.A.2.3.  for definition of primary source   3 See VI.A.1.4.  for definition of primary source .     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 9/225     c. Misuse : This refers to situations where the medicinal product is intentionally and inappropriately   used no t in accordance with the  authorise d product information terms of the marketing authorisation .   d. Abus e: This corresponds  to the persistent or sporadic , intentional excessive use of a medicinal  product, which is accompanied by harmful physical or psychological effects  [DIR Art 1 ].(16)].  e. Occupational exposure : This refers  to the exposure to a medicinal product (as see  definition defined  in [DIR VI.A.1.3. Art 1]) ,(2)]), as a result of one’s professional or non -professional  occupation.  It does n ot include the exposure to one of the ingredients during the manufacturing  process before the release  as finished product .   Medication error : This is an unintended failure in the drug treatment process that leads to, or has the  potential to lead to harm to  the patient4.  Falsified medicinal product : This relates to any medicinal product with a false representation of:    its identity, including its packaging and labelling, its name or its composition as regards any of the  ingredients including excipients and th e strength of those ingredients;    its source, including its manufacturer, its country of manufacturing, its country of origin or its  marketing authorisation holder; or     its history, including the records and documents relating to the distribution channels u sed.  This definition does not include unintentional quality defects and is without prejudice to infringements  of intellectual property rights [DIR Art 1 (33)].  VI.A. 21.23. Active substance, excipient,  Mmedicinal product , Aactive   substance, excipient   Active substance: Any substance or mixture of substances intended to be used in the manufacture of  a medicinal product and that, when used in its production, becomes an active ingredient of that  product intended to exert a pharmacological, immunological or metabo lic action with a view to  restoring, correcting or modifying physiological functions or to make a medical diagnosis  [DIR Art  1(3a)].  Excipient: Any constituent of a medicinal product other than the active substance and the packaging  material  [DIR Art 1(3b)]; E.g. colouring matter, preservatives, adjuvant, stabilisers, thickeners,  emulsifiers, flavouring and aromatic substances  [DIR Annex I ].  Medicinal product : A medicinal product is characterised by any substance or combination of  substances ,   presented as h aving properties for treating or preventing disease in human beings; or    which may be used in , or administered to human beings either with a view to restoring, correcting  or modifying physiological functions by exerting a pharmacological, immunological or m etabolic  action, or to making a medical diagnosis  [DIR Art 1].(2)].  Active substance : An active substance corresponds to any substance or mixture of substances  intended to be used in the manufacture of a medicinal product and that, when used in its product ion,  becomes an active ingredient of that product intended to exert a pharmacological, immunological or                                                   4 From: Good practice gu ide on recording, coding, reporting and assessment of medication errors (EMA/762563/2014 );  EMA website: Home/ Human r egulatory/ Post -authorisation/ Pharmacovigilance/ Medication errors .     Guideline on good pharmacovigilan ce practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 10/225     metabolic action with a view to restoring, correcting or modifying physiological functions or to make a  medical diagnosis  [DIR Art 1(3a)].  Excipient : An excipient corresponds to a ny constituent of a medicinal product other than the active  substance and the packaging material  [DIR Art 1(3b)].  In accordance with  Article 107 of Directive 2001/83/EC , the scope of this module Module  is not only  applicable to me dicinal products authorised in the EU but also to any such medicinal products  commercialised outside the EU by the same marketing authorisation holder ( see VI.C.2.2 .). Given that   a medicinal product is authorised with a defined composition,  all the  adverse reactions suspected to be  related to any of the active substance s being part of a medicinal product authorised in the EU should  be managed in accordance with the requirements presented in this module Module. This is valid  independently  of the strengths, pharmaceutical forms, routes of administration, presentations,  authorised  indications , or trade  names of the medicinal product.  For the definition of the name  and  strength of a medicinal product , refer to  Article 1(20) and  Article 1(22)  of Directive 2001/83/EC .     The guidance provided in this M odule also applies , subject to amendments where appropriate , to  medicinal products supplied in the context of compassionate use  (see VI.C.1.2.2 .) as defined in Article  83(2) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 ., subject to and without prejudice to applicable national law of  the EU Member States . As the case may be, this guidance may also apply  to named patient use as  defined under Article 5(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC .   For device s containing active substances , whether the y are authoris ed in the EU as medicinal product s  or CE marked as medical device s determine s which procedure should be followed for  the safety  reporting of suspected adverse  reactions and/or incident s. In this aspect , medicinal products follow the  requirements for pharmacovigilance provided in Directive 2001/83/EC and Regulation (EC) No  726/2004 , whereas medical devices follow the requirements  for medical device vigilance  in accordance  with Directive 90/385/EEC and Directive 93/42/EEC. As detailed in the Guidelines on a Medical Devices  Vigilance System5, a medical device incorporating a medicinal product or substance , where the action  of the medicinal produ ct or substance is a ncillary to that of the device, follow s the legal requirements  of Directive  90/385/EEC and Directive 93/42/EEC .  VI.A. 21.34. Primary source , healthcare professional and consumer   The In accordance with ICH -E2B, the primary source  of the i nformation on a suspected adverse  reaction (s) is the person who reports the facts . about an individual case safety report ICSR. Several  primary sources , such a s healthcare professional s and/or a consumer consumer s, may provide  information  on the same case . In this situation, all the primary sources ’ details , including the  qualifications,  should be provided  in the case report ICSR, with and the “Primary source(s)” section  should be repeated as necessary  in line with ICH-E2B(R2) (see GVP Annex IV )6.VI.B.2 . for ICSRs  validation  based on the primary source identifiability  of reports ).   In accordance  with the ICH-E2D (see GVP Annex IV ),   a healthcare professional is defined as a medically -qualified person such as a physician, dentist,  pharmacist, nurse  , coroner  or as otherwise  specified by local regulations;    a consumer is defined as a person who is not a healthcare professional such as a patient, lawyer,  friend , relative of a patient  or carer .                                                   5 Ref.: MEDDEV 2.12 -1 rev 8  (Ref. Ares(2016)856772 - 18/02/2016)    6 See VI.C.6  as regards the electronic reporting of ICSRs  in the EU.      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 11/225     Medical documentation sThe “Primary Source for Regulatory Purposes”  is defined in ICH-E2B(R3)7 and  is not applicable for the electronic transmission submission  of ICSRs under  the ICH-E2B(R2)  format .  This data element  refers to the person who first reported the facts. I n case of multiple primary sources   from different countries , itthis data element  identif ies the country source offor the ICH-E2B data  element “ worldwide unique case unique identification number ” by defining  the country where the case  occurred .   Where the patient experienced a  suspected adverse  reaction in a nother  country  than the one of the  primary source , this information should be captured in the ICH -E2B data element “Identification of the  Country Where the Reaction / Event Occurred ”, e.g. a male patient  from Ireland is reporting  experienc ing an anaphylactic reaction with drug X while travelling in Spain , in this in stance the primary  source country is Ireland and the occurrence country is Spain . Guidance about  the automatic rerouting  of the ICSR to the competent authority of the EU Member State where the reaction occurred  is  provided in VI.C.4. .  VI.A. 1.35. Medical confirmation   A consumer  may provide m edical documentation s (e.g. laboratory or other test data)  provided by a  consumer  that support support s the occurrence of thea suspected adverse reaction , or and which  indicate indicates that an  identifiable healthcare professional  suspects a reasonable possibility of causal  relationship between  a medicinal product and the reported  adverse event reaction , are sufficient to  consider the spontaneous report as confirmed by a healthcare pr ofessional.   If a consumer initially reports more than one reaction and at least one receives medical confirmation,  the whole report should be documented as a spontaneous report confirmed by a healthcare  professional and be reported accordingly. . Similarly,  if a report ismay be  submitted notified by a  medically qualified patient, friend , relative or carer  of the patient  or care r. In these situation s, the case  should also be reported information is  considered as a spontaneous report medically  confirmed  by a  healthcare professional .  In the same way, where one or more suspected adverse reactions  initially reported by a consumer   isare subsequently confirmed by a healthcare professional professional or contains  medical  documentation that supports the occurrence of a suspected adverse reaction , the caseICSR should be  considered medically confirmed . It should be  updated  at case level  in line with ICH -E2B(R2), or at  adverse reaction  level in accordance with ICH -E2B(R3)  for each subsequently medically confirmed  suspected adverse reaction .  VI.A. 21.46. Seriousness   As described in  ICH-E2A (see GVP Annex IV ), a serious adverse reaction corresponds to  any untoward  medical  occurrence that at any dose results in deat h, is life -threatening, requires inpatient  hospitalisation or prolongation of  existing hospitalisation, results in persistent or significant disability or  incap acity, or is a congenital anomaly/birth defect .   The characteristics/consequences should  be considered at the time of the reaction  to determin e the  seriousness  of a case . For example, life -threatening refers to a reaction in which the patient was at risk  of death at the time of the reaction; it does not refer to a reaction that hypothetically might have  caused death if more severe.                                                    7 ICH Implementation Guide for Electronic Transmission of Individual Case Safety Reports (ICSRs) E2B(R3) Data Elem ents  and Message Specification  (Accessible at http://estri.ich.org/e2br3/index.htm )     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 12/225     Medical  judgement should be exercised in deciding whether other situations should be considered as  serious  reactions . Some medi cal events may jeopardise the patient  or may require an intervention to  prevent one of the above characteristics/consequences. Such important medical events s hould be  considered as serious8. The EudraVigilance Expert Working Group has co -ordinated the deve lopment of  an important medical event (IME) terms list based on the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities  (MedDRA)  (see GVP Annex IV ). This IME list aims to facilitate the classification of suspected adverse  reactions , the analysis of aggregated data and the assessment of the individual case safety reports  (ICSRs ) in the frame work of the day-to-day pharmacovigilance activities . The IME list is intended for  guidance purposes only  and is available  on the Agency the EudraVigilance web site9 to stakeholders  who wish to use it for their pharmacovigilance activities . It is regularly updated in line with the  latest  version of MedDRA .  Where one or more serious suspected adverse reaction s are reported  in an ICSR , the information on  the seriousness sho uld be documented at case level in line with ICH -E2B(R2) or for each reported  suspected adverse reaction in accordance with ICH-E2B(R3) , depending on the ICH -E2B format used  for the ICSR electronic submission .  VI.A. 21.57. Individual case safety report (ICSR)   This refers to the format and content for the submission of an individual report  reporting of one or  several suspected adverse reactions in relation to a medicinal product that occur in a single patient at  a specific point of time . [IR Art 27] . A valid ICSR should  include at least one identifiable reporter, one  single  identifiable patient, at least one sus pect adverse reaction , and a t least one  suspect medicinal  product  (see VI.B.2.  for ICSRs validation) .   VI.A. 21.68 NnullfFlavor s  The NnullFflavors  are a collection of codes specifying why a valid value is not pr esent in an ICSR . They  are available with the ICH-E2B(R3) format and not  with ICH-E2B(R2) . Theyis refers to instances ,  where for example a proper value is applicable, but not known (e.g. age of the patient  is unknown:  code UNK ), or where the value is maske d i.e. information is available to a sender of an ICSR but it is  masked  because it  cannot be provided due to security, privacy or other  reasons (e.g. date of birth of  the patient  cannot be shared  due to local data protection laws : code MSK ). ICH-E2B(R3) ICSR uses the  nullFlavorNullflavo ur code sets from the HL7 Messaging Standard  primarily to classify the set of source  data situations that may give rise to a missing value.  For examples how a nullFlavorNullflavor s can be  used to code values in the ICSR, refer to chapter 3.3. 6. of the ICH Implementation Guide for Electronic  Transmission of Individual Case Safety Reports (ICSRs) E2B(R3) Data Elements and Message  Specification , Version 5.01, 12 April 201310. Additional EU guidance on the use of the  nullFlavorNullflavor  in some specific situations is also provided in chapter I.C.3.7 . of the EU Individual  Case Safety Report (ICSR) Implementation Guide11.                                                    8 Examples are provided in section II.B of ICH -E2A (see GVP Annex IV ).  9 EMA website:  Home/Human regulatory/Post -authorisation/Pharmacovigilanc e/EudraVigilance/System overview   http://eudravigilance.ema.europa.eu/human/textforIME.asp .  10 Accessible at http://estri.ich.org/e2b r3/index.htm    11 Ref. EMA/51938/2013 EMA/51938/2013 ; EMA website:  Home/ Human regulatory/ Post -authorisation/ Pharmacovigilance/  EudraVigilance/ Electronic reporting , 4 December 2014 .     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 13/225     VI.B. Structures and processes  Section B of this Module highlights the general principles in relation to the collection, recording and  reporting of reports of suspected adverse reactions associated with medicinal product s for human use,  which are applicable to competent authorities  and marketing authorisation holders. The definitions and  recommendations provided in VI.A. should be followed. EU requirements are presented in VI.C..   VI.B.1. Collection  of reports   Competent authorities  and marketing authorisation holders should take appropriate measures  in order   to collect  and collate all reports of suspected adverse reaction s associated with medicinal products for  human use originating from unsolicited or so licited sources .   For this purpose, a pharmacovigilance system should be developed to allow the acquisition of sufficient  information  for the scientific evaluation of those reports.   The system should be designed so that it helps to ensure that the collect ed reports are authentic,  legible, accurate, consistent, verifiable and as complete as possible for their clinical assessment.   All notifications that contain pharmacovigilance data should be recorded  and archived  in compliance  with the applicable data pro tection requirements  (see VI.C.6.2.2. 8VI.C.6.2.2.10 . for guidance on the  processing of personal data in the EU for EU requirements ).   The system should also be structured  in a way that allows for  reports of suspect ed adverse reactions to  be validated (see VI.B.2 . for ICSRs validation ) in a timely manner and exchanged  between competent  authorities  and marketing authorisation holders within the legal reporting  submission  time frame (s ee  VI.B.7.1 . for ICSRs  time frames  submission ).  In accordance with the ICH-E2D (see GVP Annex IV ), two types of safety reports are distinguished in  the post -authorisation phase ; : reports originating from unsolicited sources a nd those reported as  solicited .  VI.B.1.1. Unsolicited reports   VI.B.1.1.1. Spontaneous reports   A spontaneous report is an unsolicited communication by a healthcare professional , or consumer to a  competent authority , marketing authorisation holder  or other organi sation (e.g. Regional regional  Pharmacovigilance pharmacovig ilance Centrecentre , Poison poison Control control Centr ecentre ) that  describes one or more suspected adverse  reactions in a patient who was given one or more medicinal  products  and that . It does not derive from a study or any organi sed data collection systems where  adverse event s reporting is actively sought , as defined in VI.B.1.2 .. In this aspect With regard to this ,  the following situations should also be considered as spontaneous reports:    Stimulated stimulated report ing that occur s consequent to  a direct healthcare professional   communication  (see Module XV), GVP Module XV ), publication in the press, questioning of  healthcare professionals by company representatives , communication  from patients’ organisations  to their members , or class action lawsuit s should be considered spontaneous  reports .;    Unsolicited unsoli cited consumer adverse reaction s reports should be handled as spontaneous  reports irrespective of any subsequent “medical confirmation ”. ;     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 14/225      Rreports of suspected adverse reactions , which are not related to any organised data collection  systems  and (i) which  are notified through medical enquiry /product information  services or (ii)  which are consequent of the distribution of information  or education al materials ;    unsolicited reports  of suspected adverse reactions collected from the internet or digital media  (see  VI.B.1.1.4.  for guidance on ICSRs management from the internet or digital media );   an individual  cCases notified by different reporters , referring to the same patient and same  suspected adverse reaction , and a t least one notification is done in an unsolicited  manner spontaneously ;    Rreports of suspected adverse reaction s originating from non-interventional post -authorisation  studies and related to specified  adverse events for which the protocol does not require atheir  systematic collection ( see VI.C.1.2.1. 1. for EU guidance on this type of non-interventional post- authorisation studies , and VI.6.2.3.7 Subsection 2  for EU guidance on the electronic submission of  these ICSRs );       Rreports of suspected adverse reactions originating from compassionate use or named patient use  conducted in a countr yies where the active systematic  collection of adverse events occurring in  these programmes is not required ( see VI.C.1.2.2.  for EU guidance on compassionate use or  named patient use , and  VI.6.2.3.7 Subsection 2  for EU guidance on the elect ronic submission of  these ICSRs ).   The reporting  modalities for the submission of spontaneous reports of suspect ed adverse reactions  and  the applicable  time frames for spontaneous reports are described in VI.B.7. and VI.B.8..  VI.B.1.1.2. Literature reports   The scientific and medical literature medical literature  is a significant source of information for the  monitoring of the safety profile and of the risk-benefit balance of medicinal products , particularly in  relation to the detection of new safety signals or emerging safety issues . Marketing authorisation  holders are therefore expected to maintain awareness of possible publications through a systematic  literature review of widely used reference database s (e.g. Medline, Excerpta Medica or Embase) no less  frequently than once a week. The marketing authorisation holder should ensure that the literature  review includes the use of r eference databases  that contai n the largest reference of articles in relation  to the medicinal product properties12. In addition, marketing authorisation holder s should have  procedures in place to monitor  scientific and medical publications in local journals  in countries where  medicinal  product s have a marketing authoris ation, and to bring them to the attention of the company  safety department as appropriate.    Reports of suspected adverse reactions from the scientific and medical literature medical literature ,  including relevant published  abstracts from meetings and draft manuscripts, should be reviewed and  assessed by marketing authorisation holders  to identify and rec ord ICSRs  originating  from spontaneous  reports or non-interventional post-authorisation studies .   If multiple medicinal pr oducts are mentioned in the publication, only those which are identified by the  publication's author(s) as having at least a possible causal relationship  with the suspected adverse  reaction should be considered for literature review  by the concerned market ing authorisation holder (s).                                                    12 See VI. Appendix App.2. for the detailed guidance  on the monitoring of the medical and scientific literature.      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 15/225     Valid ICSRs sh ould be reported submitted  according to in accordance with  the time frames and  modalities detailed in VI.B.7 . and VI.B.8 ..   One case should be created for each single  identifiable  patient  identifiable  based on in line with  the  characteristics provided in VI.B.2 .... Relevant medical information should be provided  recorded and the  first publication author (s) (or the corresponding  author , if designated ) should be considered as the  primary source (s) of information . as well as the primary source for regulatory purpos es in line with  ICH-E2B(R3) (see  VI.A.2.3. ). Details about t The co -authors should do not need to be  reflected documented   among as part of  the primary source s of information.   EU specific requirements , as regard sconcerning the  medicinal products active substances  and the  scientific and medi cal publications , which are not monitored by the Agency and for which valid ICSRs  shall be reported submitted  to the EudraVigilance database by marketing authorisation holders , are  provided in VI.C.2.2.3 .1.. Exclusion  criteria in relation to  the submission in the EU of ICSRs published  in the literature are also detailed in VI.C.2.2.3.2 ..  VI.B.1.1.3. Reports from other non-medical sources  (e.g. general  news or other media )  If a marketing authorisation holder becomes aware of a repor t of suspected adverse reaction s  originating  from a non -medical source , for example  the lay press or other media, it should be handled  managed  as a spontaneous report. Every attemp t should be made to follow -up the case to obtain the  minimum information that constitutes a valid ICSR. With regard to the submission of those ICSRs , Tthe  same reporting modalities and time frames  should be applied as for other spontaneous reports.   VI.B.1. 1.4. Information on suspected adverse reactions from the internet  or digital media   Marketing In line with ICH -E2D (see GVP Annex IV ), marketing  authorisation  holders  should regularly  screen  the internet or digital media13 under their management or responsi bility, for potential reports of  suspected  adverse reactions. In this With respect to this  aspect , a digital medi uma  is considered to be  company sponsored if it is owned, paid for and/or controlled by the marketing authorisation holder14.  The frequency of the screening should allow for potential valid ICSRs to be reported submitted  to the  competent authorities  within the appropriate  regulatory  reporting  submission  time frame s based on the  date t he information was posted  on the internet site/digital medium . Marketing authorisation holders  may also consider utilising their websites to facilitate the collection of reports  of suspected adverse  reactions  (see VI.C.2.2.1 . for marketing authorisation holders’  responsibilities in the EU on  spontaneous reports ).  If a marketing authorisation holder becomes aware of a report of  suspected adverse reaction described  in any non-company sponsored digital medi um, the report should be assessed to determine whether it  qualifies for reporting submission  as ICSR .   Unsolicited cases  of suspected adverse reactions  from the internet or digit al media should be handled  as spontaneous reports. The same reporting submission  time frames  as for spontaneous reports should  be applied  (see VI.B.7 VI.B.7.1 . for ICSRs time frames submission ).   In relation t o cases from the internet  or digital media , the identifiability of  the reporter refers to the  possibility of verification of the existence of a real person , that is , it is possible to verify the contact  details  of the reporter  (based on the information ava ilable e.g., an email address  under a valid format                                                    13 Although not exhaustive, the following list should be considered as digital media: web site, web page, blog, vlog, social  network, interne t forum, chat room, health portal.   14 A donation (financial or otherwise)  to an organisation/site by a marketing authorisation holder does not constitute  ownership, provided that the marketing authorisation holder does not control the final content of the s ite.       Guideline on good pharmacovig ilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 16/225     has been provided  (see VI.B.2.  for caseICSRs validation ). If the country of the primary source is  missing, the country where the information was received , or where the review t ook place, should be  used as the primary source  country.   VI.B.1.2. Solicited reports   As defined in ICH -E2D (see GVP Annex IV GVP Annex IV ), solicited reports of suspected adverse  reactions are those derived from organised data collection systems, which include clinical trials, non - interventional studies, registries, post -approval named patient use pro grammes, other patient support  and disease management programmes, surveys of patients or healthcare providers professional s,  compassionate use or name patient use, or information gathering on efficacy or patient compliance.   Reports of suspected a dverse reactions  obtained from any of these data collection systems should not  be considered spontaneous. This is with the exception of :    reports of suspected adverse reactions  in relation  to those  adverse events from non -interventional  post-authorisation studies  related to specified  adverse events for which the protocol of non- interventional post -authorisation studies  provides differently  and does not require their systematic  collection  (see VI.C.1.2.1. 1. for EU guidance on this type of non-interventional post -authorisation  studies,  and VI.6.2.3.7 Subsection 2  for EU guidance on the electronic submission of these ICSRs ),   reports of suspected adverse reactions originatin g from compassionate use or named patient use  conducted in countries Member States where the  systematic active collection of adverse events   occurring in these programmes  is not required (see VI.C.1.2.2 . for EU guidance on compassionate  use or named patient use , and VI.6.2.3.7 Subsection 2  for EU guidance on the electronic  submission of these ICSRs ).   For the purpose of safety reporting With regard to the submission as ICSRs , solicited reports should be  classified as study reports . They , and should have an appropriate causality assessment , to consider  whether they refer to suspected adverse reactions and therefore meet the  minimum  validation criteria    (see VI.B.2.  for ICSR s validation )for reporting . Valid cases ICSRs  of suspected adverse reactions  should  be sentsubmitted  according to in line with  the time frames and modalities detailed in VI.B.7.  and  VI.B.8. .   General reporting rules forprinciples concerning  the management of reports of  suspected adverse  reactions occurring in organised data collection s ystem s conducted in the EU under the scope  of  Directiv e 2001/83/EC Directive 2001/83/EC , Regulation (EC) No 726/2004  Regulation (EC) No  726/2004 or Directive 2001/20/EC , are presented in VI.C.1. . Guidance on the management of solicited  reports in the EU  by marketing authorisation holders in the EU is provided in VI.C.2.2.2. .   VI.B.2. Validation  of reports   Only valid ICSRs qualify for reporting submission . In accordance  with ICH -E2D (see GVP Annex IV ), aAll  report s of suspected adverse reaction s should therefore be validated before reporting submitting  them  to the competent au thorities  to make sure  that the minimum criteria  for reporting are included in the  report s (see ICH-E2D (see ) ).   These Four minimum criteria are required  for ICSRs validation :     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 17/225     a. one or more  identifiable15 reporter  (primary source), see VI.A.2.3. VI.A.1.4. for primary source  definition ), characterised by   parameters such as a qualification  (e.g. physician, pharmacist, other  healthcare professional, lawyer, consumer or other non -healthcare professional ) , name, init ials, or  address  (e.g. reporter’s organisation, department, street, city, state or province, postcode, country,  email, phone number) . Local data protection laws might apply.   In line with ICH -E2D, the term ‘identifiable ’ indicates that the organisation noti fied about the case  has sufficient evidence of the existence of the person who reports the facts based on the available  information. In  addition, in  accordance with ICH E2B, an ICSR is not valid for submission unless  information concerning the qualificatio n and the country is available for at least one reporter. Thus,  an ICSR is valid if the rules from ICH -E2D regarding the reporter’s identifiability  and from ICH -E2B  regarding the reporter’s qualification and country are fulfilled  for at least one reporter .   If information on the reporter’s qualification is missing , the notification should be considered by  default as a consumer  report . If information on the reporter’s country is not available , the country  where the notification  was received or where the revi ew took place should be used in the ICSR.   (e.g. physician, pharmacist, other health care professional, lawyer, consumer or other non - healthcare professional)  name , initials  or address16.and at least one of the following  parameters17:  name , address18 or phone n umber. An ICSR should not be considered valid for reporting unless  this  information is available for at least one reporter . Whenever possible, contact details for the reporter  should be recorded  so that to facilitate  follow -up activities  can be performed . However,  if the  reporter does not wish to provide contact  details  information , the ICSR should still be considered as  valid, providing  as long as  the notified organisation who was informed of the case wasis able to  confirm  it the case directly with the repo rter.   To enable  duplicate detection  activities , aAll parties providing case information or approached for  case information should be recorded  in the ICSR identifiable , (not only the initial reporter .).   When the information is ba sed on second -hand or hears ay, the report should  be considered non- valid until it can be veri fied directly with the patient, the patient’s healthcare pro fessional  or a  reporter  who ha d direct contact with the patient .;  b. one single  identifiable12 patient , characterised by at least one of the following  qualifying  descriptors : initials,  patient  identification medical record  number  (from general practitioner,  specialist, hospital,  or investigation ),  date of birth, age ,,  age group , or gestation period, or   gender.    In line with ICH -E2D, t he term ‘identifiable’ refers to the possibility of verification of the existence of  a patient based on the available information.   The information should be as complete as possible  in accordance with local data protection laws. .   An ICSR should not be cons idered valid for  reporting  submission unless information is available for  at least one of the patient qualifying descriptors . Furthermore, as specified in ICH-E2D, in the  absence of a qualifying descriptor,  a report notification  referring to a definite num ber of patients  should not be regarded as valid until an individual the patient s can be characterised by one of the  aforementioned qualifying descriptors  for creating a valid ICSR .  a.  For example, “Two patients experienced nausea with drug X  …” should not be considered valid   without further information ;                                                   15 In line with ICH -E2D, the term ‘identifiable’ is considered in EU as referring to the possibility of verification of the  existence of a reporter and of a patient based on the information available.   16 Local data privacy laws regarding patient’s and reporter’s identifiability might apply.   17 Local data protection laws regarding reporter’s and patient’s identifiability might apply.   18 Such as reporter’s organisation, department, street, city, state/province, postcode, country, or email.      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 18/225     b.c. one or more  suspecte d19 substance/medicinal product  (see VI.A.2.2 VI.A.1.3.  for  definition ). Interacting substances or medicinal products  are also considered susp ected .  d. one or more  suspected adverse reaction  (see VI.A.2.1 VI.A.1.1.  for definition ). Examples of  case validity assessment based on  the reporter and the patient identifiability are provided in  VI.App.8 . If the primary source has made an explicit statement that a causal relationship between  the medicinal product and the reported adverse event has been excluded and the receiver (notified  competent authority  or marketing author isation holder ) agrees with this  assessment , the report  does not qualify as a valid ICSR since the minimum information  for validation  reporting  is  incomplete  (there is no suspected adverse reaction )20.   The report also does not  also qualify as a valid ICSR if it is reported that the patient experienced an  unspecified adverse reaction and there is no information provided on the type of adverse reaction   experienced .   Similarly, t he report is  not valid if only an outcome (or consequence ) is notified  and (i) no further   information about the c linical circumstances  is provided  to consider it as a suspected adverse   reaction , or (ii)  the primary source has not indicated a possible causal relationship with the  suspected medicinal product . For instance a  marketing auth orisation holder  is made aware that a  patient was hospitalised or died , without  any further information . In this particular situation,  medical  judgement should always be applied  in deciding whet her the notified information is an   adverse reaction  or an event. For example,  a report of sudden death would usually need to be  considered as a case of suspected  adverse reaction  and reported the valid ICSR should be submitted   to the competent authorities .  The lack of any of these the four elements means that the case is considered incomplete and does not  qualify for reporting submission  as ICSR . Competent authorities  and marketing authorisation holders   are expected to exercise due diligence  in following - up the case  to collect the missing data elements .  and follow-up ac tivities should be documented.  Reports,  for which the minimum information is  incomplete , should  nevertheless be recorded within the pharmacovigilance system for use in on -going  safety evaluation activities.    Recommendations on the electronic reporting of valid ICSRs , when When the missing information has  been obtained  (including for example  when the medicinal product  causal relationship  with the reported  adverse event  is no longer excluded ), the ICSR becomes valid  for submission and the EU guidance  are  provided in VI.C.6.2.3.8. should be followed .   When collecting reports of suspected adverse reactions via the internet or digital media, the term  “identifiable” refers to the possibility of verification of the existen ce of a reporter and a patient  (see  VI.B.1.1.4 .)...   Further guidance is available in  VI.C.6.2.2.10.  for the electronic reporting submission  in the EU of  ICSRs where  primary source information cannot be transmitted  for data protection considerations .   When one party ( competent authority  or a marketing authorisation holder) is made aware that the  primary source may also have reported the suspected adverse reaction to a nother concerned party,  the valid report should still be submitted considered as a valid ICSR. All the relevant information  necessary for the detection of the duplicate case  should be included in the ICSR21. GEU guidance on                                                   19 Interacting med ications are also considered suspected.   20 There is no suspected adverse reaction .  21 For further guidance on reporting of other duplicate ICSRs , refer to section A.1.11 “Other case identifiers in previous  transmission” of ICH-E2B(R2)  (see GVP Annex IV ).     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 19/225     the electronic transmission submis sion of information allowing the detection of duplicate ICSRs in line  with ICH -E2B is provided in  VI.C.6.2.2.6 ..   A valid case of suspected adverse reaction initially submitted reported notified  by a consumer cannot be  downgraded  to a report  of non -related adverse event  if the a contacted healthcare professional  (nominated by the consumer for follow -up information) subsequently disagrees with the consumer ’s  suspicion  (see VI.A.2. 2.1.VI.A.2. 2.1.VI.A.1. 21. for causality definition ). In this situation, the opinion s  of both the consumer and  the healthcare professional should be included  detailed  in the  narrative  section of the ICSR. This information can also b e submitted  in a structured manner  in ICH-E2B format ,  which provides  the mean s to transmit  the degree of suspected relatedness  expressed by several  primary sources for each reported drug event combination.   Guidance on the reporting  of the medical confirma tion of a case, provided in ICH-E2B(R2)   Section  A.1.14 (“Was the case medically confirmed, if not initially from a healthcare professional?”)  (see GVP  Annex IV ),VI.A.2.3.  should be followed .   Similarly ,For a solicited report s of suspected adverse reaction s should not be downgraded to a report  of non-related adverse event ,(see VI.B.1.2 .), where  when the receiver notified recipient (competent  authority or marketin g authorisation holder)  disagrees with the  reasonable possibility of causal  relationship between the suspected medicinal product  and the adverse reaction  expressed by the  primary source  on the supplied medicinal product , the case  should not be downgraded  to a report of  non-not causally related adverse event . The opinion s of both, the primary source and the  recipient receiver , should be recorded in the narrative section of the ICSR or in structured manner  in  line with ICH -E2B.   The same principle applies to t he ICSR seriousness criterion, which should not be downgraded from  serious to non -serious if the receiver notified recipient  disagrees with the seriousness reported by the  primary source.   VI.B.3. Follow -up of reports   When first received, t he information in suspected adverse reaction s reports  may be incomplete. These  reports  should be followed -up as necessary to obtain supplementary detailed information significant  for  the scientific evaluation of the cases . This is particularly relevant  for monitored e vents of special  interest , prospective reports of pregnancy  (see VI.B.6.1.  for guidance on the management of  pregnancy  reports ), cases  notifying  the death of  a patient , or cases  reporting  new risks  or changes in  the known r isks. This is in addition to any effort  to collect missing minimum information criteria  for  reports validation reporting (see VI.B.2 . for ICSR s validation ). Any attempt to obtain follow -up  information should be documented.   The provision in ICSRs of information on the patient’s age  information  is important in order to be able  to identify safety issues occurring specifically in the paediatric or elderly population. All  possible Reasonable  efforts should be mad e to follow -up on an individual case ICSRs where information  on the patient’s  to obtain age information or age group  of the patient, where it is initially not reported  by the primary source (see VI.B.6.2.  for guidance on paedia tric or elderly population ).  Similarly, f or suspected adverse reactions relat ed to biological medicinal products, the definite  identification of the concerned product s with regard to their manufacturing is of particular importance.  Therefore, all appropria te measures should be taken to clearly identify the name s of the product s and  their batch number s. With respect to this, it is recommended to specify in the case narrative if  information on the batch number has been requested, when it is missing in the ini tially submitted  ICSR. The business process map and a process description in VI.App.1.1.  take into account the     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 20/225     mandatory follow -up in the EU of information for the identification of suspected biological medicin al  products .   For cases related to vaccines,  GVP Product - or Population -Specific Considerations I: Vaccines for   prophylaxis against infectious diseases  and GVP Product - or Population -Specific Considerations II:  Biological  medicinal products  should also be followed as appropriate.       Any attempt to obtain follow -up information should be documented.    Follow -up methods should be tailored towards optimi sing the collection of missing information. This  should be done in ways that encourage the primary source to submit new information relevant for the  scientific evaluation  of a particular safety concern. The use of targeted specific forms in the local  language should avoid requesting the primary source  to repeat  information alrea dy provided in the  initial report and/or to complete extensive questionnaires, which could discourage future spontaneous  reporting.  Therefore, c onsideration should be given to pre -populating some data fields  in those follow - up report forms  to make their completion by the primary source easy.   Further requirements applicable to competent authorities in Member States  and to marketing  authorisation holders are provided respectively in VI.C.2.1.  and VI.C.2.2. . with business process maps  and process descriptions included in  . Guidance on the electronic reporting  of follow -up reports is  available in VI.C.6.2.2.7 ..   When information is received directly from a consumer  suggesting that an adverse reaction may have  occurred , and if the information is incomplete,  attempt s should be made to  obtain follow -up with the  consumer to collect  further information and to obtain consent to contact a nominated healthcare  professional to obtain  further follow -up information.  When  such a the case, initially reported by a  consumer,  has been  is subsequently  confirmed (totally or partially ) by a healthcare professional,  theis  informat ion medical confirmation  should be clearly highlighted captured  in the ICSR  in line with ICH - E2B (see VI.A.1.4.  for healthcare professional s definition , and VI.A.1.5.  for ICSRs medical  confirmation )22.  in line with ICH -E2B (see VI.A.2.3 .).   For suspected adverse reaction s relating to biological medicinal products, the definite identification of  the concerned produ ct with regard to its manufacturing is of particular importance. Therefore,  all  appropriate measures should be taken to clearly identify the name of the product and the batch  number . A business proces s map  and a process description  in relation to  the manda tory follow -up of  information for the identification of suspected biological medicinal products  isare presented in  VI.Appendix 1. .VI.App .1.4.   For cases r elated to vaccines,   should also be followed as appropriate.     For some  individual cases  related to medication errors that result in harm , it may not always be  possible to perform follow -up activities taking into account that the primary source reporter  information  may have been anonymised in accordance with l ocal legal requirements or due to provisions that allow  for anonymous reporting  (see VI.C.6.2.2.10.  for guidance on the processing of personal data in the  EU), for example   in case of medication error with harm and the reporter does not wish to disclose an  identity . These  cases  should be considered valid for submission as ICSRs , providing that the notified  organisation was able to confirm them directly with the primary sources  and that the other minimum  criteria  for reports validation  are satisfied  (see VI.B.2.  for ICSR s validation ).                                                    22 For further guidance on reporting  this information, refer to ICH-E2B(R2) , section A.1.14 (“Was the case medically  confirmed, if not initially from a healthcare professional?”) (see GVP Annex IV ).     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 21/225     Further EU guidance on follow -up activities applicable to competent authorities in Member States  and  to marketing authorisation ho lders is provided respectively in VI.C.2.1.  and VI.C.2.2. . with business  process maps and process descriptions included in  VI.App.1.1.  and VI.Ap.1.2. . Guidance on the  electronic submission in the EU of follow -up reports is available in VI.C.6.2.2.7. .   VI.B.4. Data management   Electronic data and paper reports of suspected adverse reactions  should be stored and treated in the  same way as other medical records with appropriate respect for confidentiality  regarding patient s’ and  reporter s’ identifia bility and in acc ordance with localapplicable  data privacy protection  laws.  Confidentiality of patients' records including personal identifiers, if provided, should always be  maintained. Identifiable personal details of reporting healthcare professiona ls should be kept in  confidence ,. protected from unauthorised access . With regard s to patient’s and reporter’s identifiability,   case report information should be transmitted between stakeholders (marketing authorisation holders  or competent authorities) in accordance with local  data privacy protection  laws (see  VI.C.6.2.2.8 .VI.C.6.2.2. 10. for guidance on the processing of personal data in ICSRs in the EU).   In order to To ensure pharmacovigilance data security and confidentiality , strict access control   measure s should be applied  in place to provide access to documents and to databases only to  authorised personnel  only. This security measure should be extend eds to the complete data path. In  this asp ectWith regard to this , procedures should be implemented to ensure security and non - corruption of data during data transfer.   When transfer of pharmacovigilance data occurs within an organisation or between  organisations   having concluded set up contractual agreements , the mechanism should be such that there is  confidence that all notifications are received ; in that , a confirmation and/or reconciliation process  should be  undertaken.   Correct d ata entry, including t he appropriate use of terminologies , should b e verified  by quality  assurance auditing , either systematically or by regular random evaluation. Data entry staff should be  instructed in the use of the terminologies, and their proficiency confirmed.    Data received from the primary source should be treate d in an u nbiased and unfiltered way and  inferences as well as  imputation s should be avoided  during data entry or electronic  transmission submission . The reports  should include the verbatim text  as used by the primary source  orandor an accurate translation o f it. where applicable (see VI.C.6.2.2.11.  for EU guidance on  languages management in ICSRs) .(see  for EU requirements on languages handling ). The original  verbatim text  should be coded using the appropriate t erminology as described in VI.B.8 .. In order to To  ensure cons istency in the coding practices,  it is recommended to use , where applicable, the translation  of the terminology in the local language  to code the verba tim text .   Electronic data s torage should allow traceability (audit trail) of all data entered or modified, including  dates and sources of received data, as well as dates and destinations of transmitted data.   A procedure sh ould be in place to account for i dentification and management of duplicate cases at data  entry and during the generation of aggregated reports (see VI.C.6.2.4 . for EU guidance  on duplicate  management ).  VI.B.5. Quality management   Competent author ities and marketing authori sation holders should have a quality management system  in place to ensure compliance with the necessary quality standards at every stage of case  documentation,  such as  data collection, data transfer, data management , data coding , case validation,     Guideline on good pharmac ovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 22/225     case evaluation , case follow -up, ICSR reporting  submission and case archiving  (see VI.C.6.2.4 . and  GVP Module I  for EU guidance  on data quality of ICSRs ).   Correct data entry, including t he appropriate use of terminologies  (see VI.B.8.  for ICSRs content and  format ), should be monitored  by quality controlled assurance auditing , either systematically or by  regular random evaluation. Conformity of stored data with initial and follow -up reports should be  verified  by quality control proc edures, which per mit for the validation against the original data or  images thereof. In this aspect With regard to this , the source data (e.g. , letters, emails, records of  telephone calls that calls, which  include details of an event) or an image of the source data should be   easily accessible. The whole process should be monitored by quality assurance audits.   Clear written standard operating procedures should guarantee  that the roles and responsibilities and  the required tasks are clear to all parties involved and that there is provision for proper control and,  when needed, change of the system. This is equally applicable to activities that are contracted out to  third parties , whose  procedures should be reviewed to verify  that they are adequate and compliant  with applicable re quirements.   Staff directly performing pharmacovigilance activities , should be appropriately trained in applicable  pharmacovigilance legislation and guidelines , in addition to specific training in report  process ing  activities for which they are responsible  and/or undertake . Data entry staff should be instructed in the  use of the  appropriate standards and  terminologies  (see VI.B.8.  for ICSRs content and format ), and  their proficiency confirmed  (see VI.C.6.2.4.  for EU guidance on training of personnel for  pharmacovigilance ). Other personnel who may receive or process safety reports (e.g. clinical  development, sales, medical information, legal, quality control) should be train ed in adverse  event s/reactions  collection and reporting submission  to the pharmacovigilance department in  accordance with internal policies and procedures .  VI.B.6. Special situations   VI.B.6.1. Use of a medicinal product du ring pregnancy or breastfeeding    a. Pregnancy   Reports , where the embryo or foetus may have been exposed to medicinal products (either through  maternal exposure and/or if the suspect ed medicinal product was taken by the father transmission of a  medicinal product via semen following paternal exposure ), should be followed -up in order to collect  information on the outcome of the pregnancy and the development of the child  after birth . The  recommendations guidance  provided in the Guideline on the Exposure to Medicinal Products during  Pregnancy: N eed for Post-Authorisation Data (see GVP Annex III ) and in GVP Product - or Population - Specific Considerations  III. should be considered as regard s the monitoring, collection and reporting  submission  of information in these specific situations in order to facilitate the scientific evaluation.   When an active substance (or one of its metabolites)  has a long half -life, this sho uld be taken into  account when assessing  the possibility of exposure  of the embryo  through  the mother and/or the  father , if the medicinal product was taken before conception.      Not infrequently, pre gnant women or healthcare professionals will contact either competent authorities   or marketing authorisation holders  to request  information on the teratogen icity of a medicinal product  and/or on the experience of use during pregnancy.  Reasonable attempt s should be made to obtain  information on any possible medicinal product exposure to a n embryo or  foetus  and to follow -up on the  outcome  of the pregnancy  (see VI.B.3.  for follow -up guidance ).      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 23/225     Reports  of exposure to m edicinal products during pregnancy should contain  as many detailed elements  as possible in order  to assess the causal relationship s between any reported adverse events reaction s  and the exposure to the suspected medicinal product.  In this context the use of standard structur ed  questionnaires is recommended.   Individual cases with an abnormal outcome associated with a medicinal product  following exposure  during pregnancy  are classified  as serious reports and should be reported submitted , in accordance with  the requirements outlined in VI.B.7.23. and in line with the guidance  provided in  VI.C.6.2.3.1.  for the  electronic reporting submission  of those ICSRs in the EU  recommenda tions provided in .  This especially refers to:   a. reports of congenital anomalies  or development al delay,  in the foetus  or the child;   b. reports of foetal death and spontaneous abortion; and   c. reports of suspected adverse reactions in the neonate that are classifie d as serious.   Other cases, such as reports of induced termination of pregnancy without informat ion on congenital  malformation, reports of pregnancy exposure without outcome data , or reports which have a normal  outcome , should not be reported submitted  as ICSRs since there is no suspected adverse reaction  (see  VI.B.2.  for ICSR validation ). These reports should however be collected and discussed  in the periodic  safety update reports ( see GVP Module VII  and VI.C.6.2.3.1. Subsection c  for the management of the   individual reports  in the EU ).     However, i In certain circumstances, reports of pregnancy exposure with no suspected reactions may  necessitate to be reported .submitted  as ICSRs . This may be a condition o f the marketing authorisation  or stipulated in the risk ma nagement plan; for example pregnancy exposure to medicinal products  contraindicated in pregnancy or medicinal products with a special need for surveillance because of a  high teratogenic potential  (e.g. thalidomide, isotretinoin).   A signal of a possible ter atogen effect (e.g. through a cluster of similar abnormal outcomes) should be  notified immediately  to the competent authorities  in accordance with the recommendations guidance  presented in  VI.C.2.2. 6 GVP Module  IX.  b. Breastfeeding   The g uidance provided in  GVP Product - or Population -Specific Considerations  III. on the conduct of  pharmacovigilance for medicines exposed via breastfeeding  should be follo wed. Suspected a dverse  reactions which  occur  in infants following exposure to a medicinal product from breast milk  should be  reported submitted  in accordance with the criteria outlined in VI.B.7 .24. and in line with the  guidance   provided in  VI.C.6.2.3.1.  for the electronic  submission  of those ICSRs in the EU recommendations on  electronic reporting provided in  VI.C.6.2.3.1. .  VI.B.6. 2. Use of a medicinal product in  a paediatric  or elderly  population   The collection of safety information in the paediatric  or elderly  population is importan t. Reasonable   attempt s should therefore be made  to obtain  and submit  the age or age group of the pat ient when a  case is reported by a healthcare professional, or consumer  in order to be able to identify  potential                                                   23 See VI.C.6.2.3.1  for electronic reporting recommendations in the EU.   24 See Footnote 16 .     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 24/225     safety signals specific to a particular population . General guidance in VI.B.3.  on reports follow -up  should be applied.   As regards the paediatric population, t he guidance published by the Agency25Guidance provided in    GVP Product - or Population -Specific Considerations  IV. on the conduct of pharmacovigilance in thisfor  medicines used in the paediatric population, and in   GVP Product - or Population -Specific Considerations   V. on the conduct of pharmacovigilance for medicines used in the elderly geriatric  population  should be  followed.    VI.B.6.3. Reports of overdose , abuse, off-label use, misuse , medication  error  or occupational exposure   For the purpose of this Module, medication error refers to  any unintentional error in the prescribing,  dispensing , or administration of a medicinal product while in the control of the healthcare p rofessional  or consumer.   The d Definitions offor overdose, abuse, off-label use, misuse, medication error or occupational  exposure are detailed provided  in VI.A.1.2.  should be applied .   Reports of overdose , abuse , off-label use, misuse , medication error  or occupational exposure  with no  associated suspected  adverse reaction  should not be reported submitted  as ICSRs . They  should be   recorded  when becoming aware of them  and considered in the periodic safety update report s as  applicable  (see GVP Module VII ). When those reports constitute safety issues impac ting on the risk - benefit balance of the medicinal product s authorised in the EU , they  should be notified to the  competent authorities  in Member States and to the Agency  in accordance with the  recommendation guidance s provided in VI.C.2.2 .6..  Reports  associated with suspected adverse reactions should be  subject to  reporting  submission  in  accordance with the criteria modalities  outlined in VI.B.7 . and with the electronic reporting submission   requirements in the EU described in VI.C.6.2.3.3 . They should be routinely followed -up to ensure that  the information is as complete as possible with regard s to the symptoms, treatments suspecte d  medicinal products name , outcomes , context of occurrence (e.g. , error in prescription, administration,  dispensing , dosage , unauthorised indication or population, etc. ).   With regards to reports of medication errors, further guidance concerning their mana gement and  assessment, provided in the Good Practice Guide on Recording, Coding, Reporting and Assessment of  Medicati on Errors26, should be followed.   Guidance  is available in VI.C.2.2.12.  with regard to the management in the EU of reported information  on the off-label use of medicinal products .   VI.B.6.4. Lack of therapeutic e fficacy   Reports of lack of therapeutic efficacy  should be collected and recorded when notified and followed -up  if incomplete. They  should not normally not be reported , butsubmitted  as ICSRs  if there is no  associated suspected adverse reaction , but they should be discussed in periodic safety update report s  as applicable . (see GVP Module VII ). Howeve r, i  In certain circumstances , these reports of lack of  therapeutic efficacy  with no  suspected adverse  reactions  may require to be  reported submitted  within a 15 -day time frame  (see VI.C.6.2.3.4 . as                                                   25 Guideline on conduct of pharmacovigilance for medicines used by the paediatric population .  26 Ref.: EMA/762563/2014 EMA/762563/2014 ; EMA website: Home/ Human regulatory/  Post-authorisation/  Pharmacovigilance/ Medication errors      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 25/225     regards for EU guidance  on the electronic  reporting management  of these ICSRs in the EU ). Medicinal  products used  in critical conditions or  for the treatment of life -threatening diseases, vaccines ,  contraceptives are exa mples of such cases . This applies  unless the reporte r has specifically stated that  the outcome  was due to disease progression and was not related  to the medicinal product.  The  requirement to submit  these  specific  reports of lack of efficacy does not apply when the notification  occurred in the frame of a non -interventional post-authorisation efficacy study . This is because they  refer to the main end point of the study. For those efficacy studies, the requirements EU guidance   provided in VI.C.1.2.1.  for non -interventional post -authorisation studies should be followed  regarding   the management of adverse events  occurring in those  efficacy studies .  Clinical  judgement should be used  when  considering if other cases of lack of therapeutic efficacy  qualify for reportingsubmission as ICSR s. For example, a report of lack of therapeutic efficacy with an  antibiotic  used in a life-threatening situation  where the use of the medicinal product was not in fact  appropriate for the i nfective agent should not be reported submitt ed. However, a  report of  lack of  therapeutic efficacy for a life-threatening infection , where the lack of therapeutic efficacy which  appear s  to be due to the development of a newly resistant strain of a bacterium pr eviously regarded as  susceptible , should b e reported submitted  as ICSR  within 15 days .   For vaccines, cases of lack of therapeutic prophylactic  efficacy should be reported submitted  as ICSRs ,  in particular with the view to hig hlight potential signals of reduced immunogenicity in  a sub -group of  vaccin ees, waning immunity, or strain replacement. With regard to the latter, it is considered that  spontaneously reported cases of lack of therapeutic prophylactic  efficacy by a healthcare professional  may constitute a signal of strain replacement. Such a signal may need prompt action and further  investigation through post -authorisation safety studies as appropriate. General guidance regarding the  monitoring of  vaccines failure , provided  in the Report of CIOMS/WHO Working Group  on Vaccine  Pharmacovigilance27, may be followed.    VI.B.7. Reporting Submission of individual case safety reports (I CSRs )  Only valid ICSR s (see VI.B.2. for ICSR s validation ) should  be reported submitted . The clock for the  reporting submission  of a valid ICSR starts as soon as the information containing the minimum  reporting criteria has been brought to the attention of  the national or regional pharmacovigilance  centre of a competent authority  or of any personnel of the marketing authorisation holder , including  medical representatives  and contractors . This date should be considered as day zero. It is the first day  when a notified competent authority or marketing authorisation holder receiver  gains  gets knowledge  of  a valid ICSR, irrespective of whether  the information is received during a week end or public holiday.   Reporting tThe timelines for submission are based on calendar days.   Where the marketing authorisation holder has set up contractual arrangements with a person or an  organisation, explicit pro cedures and detailed agreements should exist between the marketing  authorisation holder and the person/organisation to ensure that the marketing authorisation holder can  comply with the reporting obligations submission of valid ICSRs  within the appropriate time frames .  These procedures should in particular  specify the processes for  the exchange of safety information,  including the timelines and  responsibilities for the  regulatory reporting submission of valid  ICSRs .responsibilities and They should be organis ed in order  to avoid the submission of duplicate   ICSRs  reporting  to the competent authorities .                                                   27 Council for International Organizations of Medical Sciences (CIOMS). Definition and application of terms of vaccine  pharmacovigilance (report of CIOMS/WHO Working Group on Vaccine Pharmacovigilan ce). Genève: CIOMS; 2012.   Accessible at: http://www.cioms.ch/      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 26/225     For ICSRs described in the scientific  and medical  literature medical literature  (see VI.B.1.1.2 . for  guidance on the mana gement of medical  literature reports ), the clock starts (day zero) with awareness  of a publication containing the minimum information  for reporting criteria  (see VI.B.2.  for ICSR s  validation , and VI.App.2.7.  for guidance on day zero estimation  for medical  literature reports ). Where  contractual arrangements are made with a person/organisation to perform literature searches and/or  report submit  valid ICSRs, detailed agreement s should exist to ensure that the marketing authorisation  holder can comply with its regulatory submission the reporting obligations.    When additional significant  information is received for a previously reported submitted  case, the  reporting time clock starts again for the submission of a follow -up report  starts again  from the da te of  receipt of the relevant follow -up information. For the purpose of reporting submission of ICSRs ,  significant  follow -up information corresponds to new medical or administrative information that could  impact on the assessment or management of a case, or could change its se riousness criteria; non - significant  information includes updated comments on the case assessmen t, or corrections of  typographical errors in the previous case ver sion. See also VI.C.6.2.2.7 . as regard sing the distinction  between s ignificant and non -significant follow -up information  for the submission of ICSRs in the EU .  VI.B.7.1. Reporting Submission time fr ames  of ICSRs   In general , the reporting submission  of serious valid ICSRs is required as soon a s possible, but in no  case later than 15 calendar days after initial receipt of the information by the national or regional  pharmacovigilance centre of a compete nt authority  or by any personnel of the marketing authorisation  holder , including medical representatives and contractors . This applies to initial and follow -up  information.  Where a  case initially reported sent as serious becomes  non-serious , based on new f ollow- up information,  this information should still be reported submitted  within 15 days; the reporting  submission  time frame for non -serious reports should then be applied for the subsequent  follow -up  reports .  Information as regards the reporting submissio n time frame of non -serious valid ICSRs in the EU is  provided in VI.C.3..  ICH-E2B provides a mechanism to the sen der to indicate whether the case fulfils the local expedited  requirements . Further EU guidance  on this aspect is provided in VI.C.3. .  VI. B.7.2 Report nullification   The nullification of a report should be used to indicat e that a previously transmitted  ICSR is considered  completely voi d (nullified) , for example when  the whole c ase was found to be erroneous . EU gGuidance  on ICSRs  nullification in line with ICH -E2B is provided in  VI.C.6.2.2.10. VI.C.6.2.2.9. .   VI.B.7.3. Amendment  report   There may be instances, where a n ICSRreport  which has already been submitted may need to be  amended for example when, after an internal review or accor ding to an expert opinion  some items  have been corrected , (such as adverse event/reaction terms, seriousn ess, seriousness criteria or  causality assessment ) but without receipt of new information that would warrant submission of a  follow -up report . The same would apply where documentation s mentioned in an ICSRs, translations or  literature articles are requeste d by competent authorities the Agency or other Member States and are  further sent as attachments in line with ICH E2B(R3). These submissions are considered as amendment  reports.  Further EU guidance on the amendment of ICSRs in line with ICH-E2B is provided  in  VI.C.6.2.2.8 ..     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 27/225     VI.B.8. Reporting mModalit ies for submission  of individual case safety  reports (ICSRs)   Taking into account Given  the international dimension of adverse reaction s reporting and the need to  achieve harmonisation  and high quality between all involved parties , ICSRs  should be submitted  electronically  as structured data  with the use of controlled vocabularies for the relevant data elements  where applicable .   In this aspect , wWith regard to the conte nt and format of electronic ICSRs,  competent authorities  and  marketing authorisation holders should adhere to the following internationally agreed  ICH28 guidelines  and standards  (see GVP Annex IV ) taking into count the transition from ICH -E2B(R2) to ICH -E2B(R3)  formats :   the ICH M1 terminology - Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA)  (see GVP Annex  IV), which should be used at the lowest level term (LLT) level forin the transmission of  ICSRs ;.  Stakeholders should follow the recommendations of the MedDRA Maintenance Support Service  Organisation (MSSO) regarding the switch to a new MedDRA version29;        - Tthe latest version of the ICH-endorsed Guide for MedDRA Users MedDRA Term Selection: Points  to Consider30(see GVP Annex IV );;   ICH M2 EWG - Electronic Transmission of Individual Case Safety Reports Message Specification   (see GVP Annex IV );   ICH E2B(R2) - Maintenance of the ICH Guideline on Clinical Safety Data Management: Data  Elements for Transmission of Individual Case Safety Reports  (see GVP Annex IV );   ICH E2B Implementation Working Group - Questions & Answers (R5) (March 3, 2005)  (see GVP  Annex IV ).   The gthe guidelin es applicable for the ICH -E2B based  on ICSRs ICH-E2B format s:  Reference  Guidelines   ICH-E2B(R2)   ICH-M2 EWG - Electronic Transmission of Individual Case Safety Reports  Message Speci fication  (see GVP Annex IV );   ICH-E2B(R2) - Maintenance of the ICH Guideline on Clinical Safety Data  Management: Data Elements for  Transmission of Individual Case Safety  Reports  (see GVP Annex IV ).;   ICH-E2B Implementation Working Group - Questions & Answers (R5)   (see GVP Annex IV );  ICH-E2B(R3)   ICH Implementation guide  package including the ICH -E2B(R3)  Implementation Guide for Electronic Transmission of Individual Case  Safety Reports (ICSRs) - Data Elements and Message Specification  (see  GVP Annex IV );                                                   28 http://www.ich.org/   29 The latest supported MedDRA versions in line with the official semi -annual releases are posted on the EudraVigilance  webpage  (EMA website:  Home/ Human regulatory/ Post -authorisation/ Pharmacovigilance/ EudraVigilance / System  overview ).  30 For off -label, misuse, abuse and medication error, the definitions provided in VI.A.1.2.  should be followed.      Guideline on good pha rmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 28/225     Reference  Guidelines    ICH-E2B(R3) Im plementation Working Group - Electronic Transmission  of Individual Case Safety Reports (ICSRs) - Questions ＆ Answers  (see  GVP Annex IV ).;  As technical standards evolve over time, the above referred documents may require  revision and  maintenance  or revision . In this context, the latest version of these documents should always be taken  into account.    Informatio n regarding EU specific reporting modalities  isfor ICSRs  submission and the applicable  guidelines, definitions, formats, standards and terminologies  are provided  respectively  in VI.C.4. and  VI.C.6.1. .       Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 29/225     VI.C. Operation of the EU network   Section VI.C of this Module highlights the EU specific requirements , as defined in Directive 2001/83/EC  [DIR] and Regulation (EC)  No 726/2004  [REG] , in relation to the collection, management and reporting  submission  of reports of suspected adverse reaction s (serious and non -serious)  associated with  medicinal products for human use authorised in the EU , , independent lyirrespective of the  product sir  condition s of use  within or outside the terms of t he marketing authorisation in the EU . They These  requirements  are applicable to competent authorities in Member States and/or to marketing  authorisation holders  in the EU .   Section C  should be read in conjunction  with tThe definitions and general principle s detailed in  Sections   VI.A. and VI.B. of this Module  and with the requirements provided in chapter s IV, V and IX of the  Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 520/2012 [IR]should be applied in conjunction with the  guidance provided in this Section . The requirements provided in Chapters IV, V and IX of the   Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 520/2012 [IR] on the u se of terminology, formats and  standards , on th e submission  of reports of suspected adverse reactions , and on the processing of  personal data shall also be followed .  In accordance with Article 107 of Directive 2001/83/EC, marketing authorisation holders have to  submit in addition to information on adve rse reactions that occur in the EU, information on serious  suspected adverse reactions that occur in third countries.  Given that a medicinal product is authorised  with a defined composition,  all the  adverse reactions suspected to be related to any of the active  substance s being part of a medicinal product authorised in the EU should be managed in accordance  with the requirements presented in this Module . This is valid irrespective  of the strengths,  pharmaceutical forms, routes of administration, presentatio ns, authorised  indications , or names of the  medicinal product  (see VI.C.2.2 . for detailed requirements applicable to marketing authorisation  holders ). For the definition of the name and strength of a me dicinal product, refer to Art icle 1(20) and  1(22)  of Directive 2001/83/EC .     The guidance provided in this Module also applies  to    homeopathic and herbal medicinal products with the exception of homeopathic medicinal products  authorised under the special simplified registration procedure detailed in Art icle 14 (1)  of Directive  2001/83/EC  [DIR Art 16 (3) and Art 16g], and  to   medicinal products supplied in the context of compassionate use  as defined in Article 83(2)  of  Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 , subject to  and without prejudice to the applicable national law s of  EU Member States . As the case may be, this guidance may also apply to named patient use as  defined under Article 5(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC  (see VI.C.1.2.2 . for ICSRs management in   compassionate use  and named patient use ).   For devices containing active substances, the procedure to be followed for the submission of individual  reports of suspected adverse reactions and/or incidents varies dependin g if these devices have been  authorised in the EU as an integral part of medicinal products (products covered by the second  paragraph of Article 1(3) of Directive 93/42/EEC) or CE marked as medical devices. With regard to  this, devices authorised as an int egral part of medicinal products follow the pharmacovigilance  requirements provided in Directive 2001/83/EC  and Regulation (EC)  No 726/2004 , whereas devices CE  marked  as medical devices follow the requirements for medical device vigilance  given in Directiv e  90/385/EEC and Directive 93/42/EEC. As detailed in the G uidelines on a Medical Devices Vigilance     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 30/225     System31, a medical device incorporating a medicinal product or substance , where the action of the  medicinal product or substance is a ncillary to that of the device, follows the legal requirements of  Directive  90/385/EEC and Directive 93/42/EEC .     VI.C.1. Reporting  rules Management of individual safety reports  for clinical  trials , and post-authorisation studies , compassionate use and named  patient use  in the EU   In line with Article 3(3) and 107(1)  of Directive 2001/83/EC , Tthe pharmacovigilance rules laid down in  Directive 2001/83/EC  Directi ve 2001/83/EC and Regulation (EC) No 726/2004  Regulation (EC)  No  726/2004 do not apply to  investigational medicinal products  (IMPs) and non-investigational medicinal  products32 (NIMPs)  intended for research and development trials  used in clinical trials  conducted  in  accordance with Directive 2001/20/EC33.   In the EU, Postpost-authorisation  safety or efficacy  studies can be impose d requested by competent  authorities in Member States or the Agency  during the evaluation of the initial marketing authorisation  application  in accordance with Article 21a(b) (f) of Directive 2001/83/EC  and Article 9(4)(cb)(cc)  of  Regulation (EC) No 726/200 4,Directive 2001/83/EC  or they can  be requested during the post - authorisation phase  in line with Article 22a(1)(a) (b) of Directive 2001/83/EC  and Article 10a(1)(a)(b)   of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 , or . They can also be  conducte d  voluntarily by the marketing authorisation holders .,   can either be clinical trials or non -interventional post-authorisation studies as As shown in Figure VI.1.,  post-authorisation studies  can either be clinical trials or  non-interventional post-authorisation studies  and tThe management of individual safety report sing  falls therefore either    under the scope of Directive 2001/20/EC  for any clinical trials ; or    under the provisions set out in Directive 2001/83/EC Directive 2 001/83/EC  and Regulation (EC) No  726/2004  Regulation (EC) No 726/2004  for any non-interventional post-authorisation  studies .   Reports of s Suspected adverse reactions should  not be reported submitted  under both regimes ,  legislations that isare Directive 2001 /20/E C as well as Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 Regulation (EC) No  726/2004   and Directive 2001/83/EC Directive 2001/83/EC , as since this create s duplicate  reports .   Further guidance on post -authorisation safety studies is provided in  GVP Module VIII .  Figure VI.1.  illustrates Tthe different types of studies and  clinical tr ials and post-authorisation studies  which can be conducted in the EU . are illustrated in Figure VI.1 ... The management of individual safety  report sing for clinical trials   correspond ing todesignated by  section s A, B, C and DC of Figure VI.1 .  follow s the re quirements of Directive 2001/20/EC , whereas . The safety individual safety  report sing for  non-interventional post-authorisation studies corresponding to section   ED and EF follow s the  requirements of Directive 2 001/83/EC Directive 2001/83/EC  and Regulation ( EC) No 726/2004   Regulation (EC)  No 726/2004 .                                                    31 Ref.: MEDDEV 2.12 -1 rev 8 (Ref. Ares(2016)856772 - 18/02/2016)    32 For guidance on investigational medicinal products (IMPs) and non -investigational medicinal products (NIMPs) these  terms, see The Rules Governing Medicinal Products in the European Union, Volume 10, Guidance Applying to Clinical Trials,  Guidance on Investigational Medicinal Products and Non -Investigational Medicinal Products (NIMPs)  (Ares(2011)300458 -  18/03/2011 ), and the Detailed guidance on the collection, verification and presentation of adverse event/reaction reports  arising from clinical trials on medicinal products for human use (‘CT -3’), (2011/C 172/01)  .  33 See DIR Art 3(3)  and Art 107(1) third subparagraph .     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 31/225     The reporting rules for the submission of valid reports of suspected adverse reactions ICSRs  to the  appropriate EudraVigilance database modules are dependent  depend s on the types of organised  collection systems where theythe suspected adverse  reactions  occurred  and the ;  recommendations guidance  provided in VI.C.6.2.1 . should be followed. Diagram illustrating  different Different  types of clinical trials and s tudies conducted in the EU       Section A:  Clinical trials  conducted whe re no marketing authorisation exists in the EU , and which fall under the scope of  Directive 2001/20/EC  and which are  conducted when no marketing authorisation exists in the EU .  Section B:  Clinical trials, which fall under the scope of Directive 2001/20/EC  and which are conducted in the post - authorisation period, e.g. for new indication.   Section CB: Post-authorisation clinical trials conducted by marketing author isation holders or other organisations in  accordance with the summary terms  of the marketing authorisation of the medicinal product  characteristics  (SmPC) indication and condition of use, but , and which fall under the scope of Directive 2001/20/EC due to  the nature of the intervention , e.g. for the development of new indications or new formulations .  Section DC: Post-authorisation safety or efficacy clinical trials imposed in accordance with Art icle 21a(b)(f)  of Directive  2001/83/EC  and Article 9(4)(cb)(cc)  of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 , requested in accordance with Directive  2001/83/EC  Article 22a(1)(a)(b)  of Directive 2001/83/EC  andor Regulation (EC) No 726/2004   Article  10a(1)(a)(b)  of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 , or conducted voluntarily by marketing autho risation holders  or  other organisations , and but which fall under the scope of Directive 2001/20/EC  due to the nature of the  intervention.   Section ED: Non-interventional post -authorisation safety or efficacy studies imposed in accordance with Art icle 21a(b )(f)  of Directive 2001/83/EC  and Article 9(4)(cb)(cc)  of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 , requested in accordance  with Directive 2001/83/EC  Article 22a(1)(a)(b)  of Directive 2001/83/EC  andor Regulation (EC) No 726/2004   Article 10a(1)(a)(b)  of Regulation (EC) N o 726/2004 , or conducted voluntarily by the marketing authorisation  holders  or other organisation s and which follow the same legal requirements . The assignment of the patient  to a particular therapeutic strategy is not decided in advance by the study proto col but falls within current  practice. The prescription of the product in the usual manner in accordance with the terms of the marketing  authorisation is clearly separated from the decision to include the patient in the study.  The requirements set  out in A rticle 107(3)  and 107a(4)  of Directive 2001/83/EC  and Article 28(1) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004  apply to studies initiated, managed, or financed  by a marketing authorisation holder , or where the design is  controlled by a marketing authorisation holder.   Section FE: Non-interventional post -authorisation studies conducted voluntarily by marketing authorisation holders or  other organisations in accordance with SmPC indication and condition of use the terms of the marketing  authorisation  of the medicinal produc t and which fall under the scope of Directive 2001/83/EC  or Regulation  (EC) No 726/2004 . The assignment of the patient to a particular therapeutic strategy is not decided in  advance by the study protocol but falls within current practice. The prescription of the product in the usual  manner in accordance with the terms of the marketing authorisation is clearly separated from the decision to  include the patient in the study.  The requirements set out in Art icle 107(3)  and 107a(4)  of Directive  2001/83/EC  and Article 28(1) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 apply to studies initiated, managed, or  financed  by a marketing authorisation holder , or where the design is controlled by a marketing authorisation  holder.          Non-interventional   post-authorisation studies        E       Clinical trials      A   B          Pre-authorisation  Post-authorisation   DC    Safety  &  Efficacy    ED         Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 32/225     VI.C.1. 1. Management of individual safety reports  Repor ting rules for  clinical trials   A suspected adverse reaction to an investigational medicinal product (IMP) occurring in a  clinical trial  which falls under the scope of  Directive 2001/20/EC . It is only to be addressed  by the sponsor based  on the requirements  detailed in  that Directive. It is therefore excluded from the scope of this Module ,  even if the clinical trial where the suspected adverse reaction occurred is a post-authorisation safety or  efficacy studyclinical trial , imposed in line with  Article 21a of Directive 2001/83/EC  and Article 9(4) of  Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 , requested in accordance with Directive 2 001/83/E C or Regulation (EC)  No 726/2004 , Article 22a of Directive 2001/83/EC  and Article 10a of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 , or  if it is conduc ted voluntarily  by a marketing authorisation holder .   If a clinical trial , conducted under the scope of  Directive 2001/20/EC , yields safety concerns which  impact o n the risk -benefit balance of an authorised medicinal product, the competent authorities in t he  Member States where the medicinal product is authorised and the Agency should be notified  immediately in accordance with the modalities detailed in VI.C.2.2.6 ... This applies as well if a safety  concern arise s from a clinical trial conducted exclusively outside the EU.   The safety data from clinical trials to be presented in the relevant sections of the periodic safety  update report of the authorised medicinal product are detailed in GVP Module VII .   Where Where a n untoward and unintended response originating from a clinical trial conducted in  accordanc e with Directive 2001/20/EC , is suspected to be related only to a non -investigational  medicinal product (or another medicinal product , which is not part of other than the clinical trial  protocol) IMP or NIMP  and does not result from a possible interaction wi th the investigational medicinal  product IMP or NIMP , it does not follow the expedited reporting requirements  of Directive 2001/20/EC ,  which apply only to the investigational medicinal product . an untoward and unintended response from  a clinical trial conducted in accordance with Directive 2001/20/EC is suspected to be related only  to a  medicinal product other than the IMP and does not result from a possible  interaction with the IMP, it  should be managed in line with  the requirements provided in Art 107(3) and 107a( 4) of Directive  2001/83/EC . The same applies whe n the adverse reaction is suspected to be related only to an  authorised non -investigational medicinal product (NIMP)34. In this context, t The investigator or the  sponsor is encouraged to report the ca se to the competent authorit y in the Member State  where the  reaction occurred or to the marketing authorisation holder  of the su spected medicinal product , but not  to both to avoid duplicate reporting ICSRs submission35. Whe re made aware  of such case , the  competent authority  or the marketing authorisation holder  should apply  the time frames and  reporting  requirements modalities  described  in VI.C.3 ,., VI.C.4 . and VI.C.6 ... As regard s electronic reporting , the  The report should be  managed, classified and submitted as spontaneous and t he recommendations  guidance detailed  in VI.C.6.2.3.7 ., Subsection 3  should be followed  with regard to the electronic  submission of ICSRs .                                                    34 For guidance on investigational medicinal products (IMPs) and non -investigational medicinal products (NIMPs), see the  Guidance on Investigational Medicinal Products and Non -Investigational Medicinal Products (NIMPs) (Ares(2011)300458 -  18/03/2011) .  35 See The Rules Governing Medicinal Products in the European Union, Volume 10, Chapter 7.11.3 of the Detailed guidance  on the collection, verification and presentation of adverse event/reaction reports arising from clinical trials on medicinal  products for human use (‘CT -3’), (2011/C 172 /01).     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 33/225     VI.C. 1.2. Management of individual safety reports  Reporting rules for non - interventional post-authorisation studies , compassionate use and named  patient use   This Section chapter  applies  to non -interventional post-authorisation studies , compassionate use and  named patient use . For th ese org anised data collection schemes,  a system  should be put in place  to  record and document complete  and comprehensive case information  on solicited adverse  events  36(see  GVP Annex I VI.A.1.1.  and GVP Annex I  for defi nition ) which  need to be collected as specified in  VI.C.1.2.1.  and in VI.C.1.2.2 .. These   In line with ICH -E2D (see GVP Annex IV ), these  collected adverse events should be systematically  assessed to determine whether the y are possibly related to the studied (or supplied) medicinal  product s (see ICH-E2D (see GVP Annex IV )).. A method of causality assessment should be applied for  assessing the causal role of the studied (or supplied)  medicinal product s in the occurrence of the  solicited  adverse event s (for example,  the WHO-UMC system System for Sstandardised case Case  causality Causality aAssessment37). An adverse event should be classified as an adverse reaction, if  there is at least a reasonable possibility of causal relation ship with the product .    Only valid ICSRs  (see VI.B.2 .) Reports of adverse reactions , which are  , suspected to be related to the  studied (or supplied) medicinal product  by the primary source or  by the notified organisation ,receiver   of the case , should be reported classified and submitted  in accordance with the guidance requirements   provided in VI.C.1.2.1. , VI.C.1.2 .2. ,  and VI.C.6 .2.3.7. . Depending o n the seriousness and country of  origin of the suspected reaction , the submission time  frames and modalities detailed in VI.C.3 . and  VI.C.4.  should be applied. Other reports of adverse events should be summarised as part of any  interim safety analysis and  in the final study report, where applicable.     In situations where  an adverse reaction s isare suspected to be related to a medicinal product s other  than the  studied (or supplied) medicine  and does not result from a possible interaction  with it, these  report s should be managed, classified  and reported submitted  as spontaneous  ICSRs. They It should be  notified  by the primary source  (healthcare professional  or consumer ) to the competent authority in the  Member State  where the reaction  s occurred  or to the marketing authorisation holder  of the suspected  medicinal product , but not to both (to avoid dupl icate reporting ICSRs submission ).   Where made aware, in the frame of th ese organised data collection schemes, of events which affect  the known risk -benefit balance of the studied (or supplied ) medicinal product and/or impact on public  health, the marketing  authorisation holder should notify the concerned competent authorities and the  Agency in accordance with the modalities detailed in VI.C.2.2.6. .  Further guidance on post -authorisation studies conducted by marke ting authorisation holders is  provided in VI.C.2.2.2 ..  The requirements provided in this Module do not apply to non-interventional post -authorisation studies  conducted by organisations  such as academia, medical rese arch charities or research organisations in  the public sector . These organisations should follow the local requirements as regards the reporting  submission of cases of suspected adverse reactions to the compet ent authority in the Member State  where the rea ction occurred . However, where a study conducted by one of these  organisation s is  directly initiated, managed ,  financed or financed  by a marketing authorisation holder , or where its  design is controlled by a marketing authorisation holder  (voluntarily or p ursuant to obligations imposed  in accordance with Articleicles 21a and or 22a of Directive 2001/83/EC , orof Directive 2001/83/EC  and  Articleicles 10 9(4) and  or 10(a of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 )) of Regulation 726/2004 ), the                                                   36See GVP Annex I  for definition of adverse event.   37 https://www.who -umc.org/      Guideline on good  pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 34/225     requirements provided in th is Module are applicable38. In this context, contractual agreements should  be in place to clearly define the role and responsibilities of each party for implementing these   requirements  (see GVP Module I ).  VI.C.1.2.1. Non-interventional post-authorisation studies   Non-interventional post-authorisation studies39 (see GVP Annex I ) should be distinguished between    Studies those with a design based on primary data collection directly from healthcare pro fessionals  or consumers  (i.e. where the events of interest are collected as they occur specifically for the  study ), and    sStudiesy with a design s which are based on the secondary use of data  (i.e. where the events of  interest have already occurred  and have  been collected for another purpose ).   Depending on the study design, the requirements provided hereafter in VI.C.1.2.1.1.  and VI.C.1.2.1.2.   apply40.   For combined stud ies with a design  based on  both primary data collection and secondary use of data,  the submission of ICSRs is required exclusively fo r the data obtained through primary data collection  and the guidance provided  hereafter  in VI.C.1.2.1. 1. should be followed . For the events identified  through  secondary use of data, the guidance in VI.C.1.2.1. 2. applies . All adverse eve nts/reactions  collected as part of this type of stud ies should be recorded and summarised in the interim safety  analysis and in the final study report.    In case of doubt, the management o f individual safety reports reporting requirement s should be  clarifie d with the concerned competent authorit yies in the Member State s.   National legislation should be followed as applicable regarding  the obligations towards local ethics  committees .   VI.C.1.2.1. 1. Non-interventional post -authorisation studies with a design b ased on primary  data collection   Information on  all adverse events  should be collected and recorded from healthcare professionals or  consumers in the course of the study unless the protocol provides differently  with a due justification for  not collecting certain adverse events . Any reference to adverse events that are not collected should be  made using the appropriate level of the MedDRA classification (see GVP Module VIII).   For all collected adverse events, c omprehensive and high quality information should be sought  in a  manner which allow for valid ICSRs to be reported submitted  within the appropriate time  frames  (see  VI.C.3. ).For all collected adverse events,  cases Cases of adverse reactions, which are suspected to be  related to the studied medicinal product by the primary source or the receiver of the case notified  organisatio n, should be recorded in the pharmacovigilance database  and reported submitted  as ICSRs  in accordance with the requirements time frames and modalities  provided in VI.C.3.  and VI.C.4. . Valid  ICSRs They should be classified as solicited reports (s(seeee summary in Table VI.1. , and  VI.6.2.3.7  Subsection 1  for guidance on the  electronic submission of thes e ICSRs )VI.C.2.2.2 . and VI.C.6.2.3.7. ).  See summary in Table VI.1. .                                                   38 This does not concern the donation of a medicinal product for research purpose if the marketing authorisation holder has  no control on the study.   39 See GVP Annex I  for definition of non -interventional study.   40 For combined study designs  withbased on  primary and secondary data collection  and secondary use of data , the same  requirements as for  studies with primary data collection should b e followed .     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 35/225     All fatal outcomes should be considered as adverse events which should  be collected . In certain  circum stances , suspected adverse reactions with fatal outcome may not be subject to  expedited  reporting submission as ICSR s, for example because they refer to  study  outcomes  (efficacy end  points), because the patients included in the study have a disease with h igh mortality, or because the  fatal outcomes have no relation to the objective of the study.  For these particular situations, the  rational e for not reporting submitting  as ICSRs certain adverse reactions with fatal outcome s should be  clearly described in t he protocol .  together with a list using the appropriate level of the MedDRA  classification  (see GVP Module VII I).  All collected  adverse events collected during the study should be summarised  as part of any in the  interim safety analysis and in the final study report.    For adverse events specified in the study protocol which are not systematically collected for whic h the  protocol  provides differently and  does not require their systematic collection , healthcare professionals  and consumers should be informed in the protocol (or other study documents) of the possibility to  report adverse reactions (for which they suspec t a causal role of a medicine) to the marketing  authorisation holder of the suspected medicinal product (studied or not) or to the concerned competent  authorities authorit y via the national spontaneous reporting system  (s. ee summary in Table  VI.1.).ValidThe resulting v alid ICSRs should be managed, classified and reported submitted  as  spontaneous (see VI.C.6.2.3.7 . subsection 2 ) by the receiver of the reports .notified competent  autho rity or marketing authorisation holder  (see VI.6.2.3.7 Subsection 2   for guidance on the   electronic submission of these ICSRs ). When Where made aware of them, these rep orts should also be  summarised  in the relevant study reports  by the marketing authorisation holder  sponsoring the study in  the relevant study reports .                                   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 36/225     Table VI.1.  Non-interventional post -authorisation studies with primary data collection: Requirements  concerning Management of adverse events  adverse events collection and suspected adverse reactions  reporting . for no n-interventional post -authorisation studies with  a design based on primary data  collection   For collected aAdverse events , for which  the protoco l does not provide differently requires their  systematic collection  and including  all those adverse events  with fatal outcome s  Collection  rRequirements  for  adverse events   Collect and record comprehensive and high quality information ..   Perform causality asse ssment ..   Summarise all collected adverse events in the interim safety analys is and  in the final study report .  Reporting r equirements  for suspected adverse  reactions   Cases of adverse reactions , which are suspected to be related to the  studied medicinal pro duct by the primary source or the receiver of the  casenotified organisation , should be  recorded in the pharmacovigilance  database . reported    Valid ICSRs should be  managed submitted classified   in the form of and  submitted as valid solicited ICSRs  in line with  the appropriate time   frames . (See VI.C.3) see VI.C.3. ).   In certain circumstances, suspected adverse reactions with fatal outcome  may not be subject to expedited reporting submission  as ICSRs. A  justification should a lways be provided in the protocol ..  Reporting r equirements  for adverse events  1. Summarise all collected adverse events as part of any interim safety  analysis and in the final study report.   For adverse events not collected , as specified  in the study protoco l  Requirements for  suspected adverse  reactions   Inform h ealthcare professionals and consumers of the possibility to  report suspected adverse reactions to  the marketing authorisation holder  or to the  concerned competent authority via the nationa l spontaneou s  reporting system .   Valid ICSRs should be managed, classified and submitted as spontaneous   in line with the appropriate time  frames .   When made aware of them, these ICSRs  should also be summarised in  the relevant study reports by the marketing authorisation  holder  sponsoring the study .  VI.C.1.2.1. 2. Non-interventional post -authorisation studies with a design based on  secondary use of data   The design of such studies is characterised by the secondary use of data previously co llected from  consumers  or health care professionals for other purposes. Examples include medical  chart re views  (including following -up on data with healthcare professionals), analysis of electronic health care  records, systematic reviews , meta-analyses .   For these studies,  the reporting submission  of suspected adverse reactions in the form of ICSRs is not  required. Reports of a All adverse events/reactions collected for the study should be recorded and  summarised as part of any in the interim safety analysis and in the final study report  unles s the  protocol provides for different  reporting  with a due justification  (see GVP Module VIII).      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 37/225     VI.C. 1.2.2. C ompassionate use  and named patient use   The guidance provided in this Module applies , subject to amendments where appropriate,  to medicinal  products supplied in the context of compassionate use as defined in Art icleicle 83(2) of Regulation (EC)  No 726/2004  of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 ., subject to and without prejudice to the applicable  national law s in the EU Member States . As the case may be , this guidance may also apply to named  patient use as defined under Art icleicle 5(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC  of Directive 2001/83/EC . Local  requirements  should be followed as applicable.   Where an organisation41 or a healthcare professional, supplying a medicinal product under  compassion ate use or named patient use , is notified or becomes aware of a n adverse event , it should  be managed  as follow s depending on  the requirements  in the concerned Member State :    For compassionate  use and named patient use conducted in Member States (or in countries outside  the EU) where the active collection of adverse events occurring in the se programmes is required ,  the reports of adverse reactions , which are  suspected to be related to the supplied medicinal  product  by the primary source or the receiver of the case notified organisation , should be  reported .submitted  as ICSRs  in line with the time frames and modalities  provided in VI.C.3.  and  VI.C.4. . They should be considered as solicited reports  (see see VI.C.2.2.2 . and VI.6.2.3.7  Subsection 1  for guidance on the  electronic submission of these ICSRs ).    For compassionate use and named patient use  conducted in Member States  (or in countries outside  the EU) where the active collectio n of adverse events occurring in these programmes is not  required , any notified noxious or unintended response to the  supplied  medicinal product  should be  reported. submitted as ICSR  in accordance with the time frames and modalities  provided in VI.C.3.   and VI.C.4. . It should be considered as a spontaneous report of suspected adverse reaction . (see  see VI.6.2.3.7 Subsection 2  for guida nce on the  electronic submission of these ICSRs VI.C.6.2.3.7.   subsection 2 ).   VI.C.2. Colle ction of reports   VI.C.2.1. Responsibi lities of Member State s  Each M ember State sh all have in place a system for the coll ection and recording of unsolicited and  solicited  reports  of suspected adverse reactions  that occur in its territory  and which are brought to its  attention by healthcare professionals, consumers , or marketing authorisation holder s42 [DIR Art 101(1)  and 107a (1)]. In this context, the competent authorit iesy in a Member State s  shall establish  procedures for collecting and recording all  reports of  suspected adverse reactions that occur in their its  territory  [IR Art 15  (2)]. T he definitions and general  principl es detailed in  VI.A.1.  and Section  VI.B,.,  together with the time frames and reporting modalities presented in VI.C.3., VI.C.4. and VI.C.6 . should  be applied  with regard  to their submission as ICSRs  to the EudraVigilance database  should be applied  to those reports . should be applied  to those reports .   Member States shall involve patients and healthcare professionals, as appropriate, in the follow -up of  any reports they receivein order to comply with Article 102(c) and (e) [DIR Art 107a(1)].  Furthermore,  for reports submitted by a marketing authorisation holder, Member States on whose territory the  suspected adverse reaction occurred may involve the marketing authorisation holder in the follow -up  of the reports  [DIR Art 107 a(2)]. In support of the operation of these follow -up procedures, business                                                   41 E.g. sponsor, applicant, marketing authorisation holder, hospital or wholesaler.   42 The Mmarketing authorisation holders shall report submit ICSRs to EudraVigilance the competent authorities in Member  States  in accordance with the transitional  provisions set out in Art icle icle 2(4)107(3)  of Directive 2001/83/EC and Article  2(5) of Directive 2010/84/EU and further detailed in VI.C.4 .1.     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 38/225     process m aps and process descriptions are provided in  VI.App .1.2 and VI.App .1.3. The criteria upon  which competent authorities in Member States may involve a marketing authorisation  holder in the  follow -up of individual cases refer to the need to seek clarifications on inconsistent data in ICSRs, but  also to the  need to obtain further information in the context of the validation of a signal, the evaluation  of a safety issue, the asse ssment of a periodic safety update report or the confirmation of a safety  concern  in a risk management plan. Further  guidance on the follow -up of ICSRs  is provided in VI.B.3. .  Pharmacovigilance data and documents r elating to individual authorised medicinal products shall be  retained as long as the product is authorised and for at least 10 years after the marketing  authorisation has expired. However, the documents shall be retained for a longer period where Union  law or national law so requires  [IR Art 16 (2)].   Each Member State shall take all appropriate  measures to encourage healthcare professionals and  consumers in their territory to report suspected adverse reactions to their competent authority. In  addition , the competent authority in a Member State may impose specific obligations on healthcare  professionals.  To this end, the competent authorit iesy in a Member State s shall facilitate in theirits  territory the reporting of suspected adverse reactions by mean s of alternative straightforward  reporting systems, accessible to healthcare professionals and consumers, in addition to web -based  formats  [DIR Art 102] . Information on the different ways of reporting suspected adverse reactions  related to medicinal products , shall be made publicly available , including by means of national  medicines web -based portals [DIR 106(e)]. To increase awar eness of the reporting systems,  organisations representing consumers and healthcare professionals may be involved  as appropriate  [DIR Ar t 102] .   Standard In line with Art icleicle 25 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004  of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 ,  standard  web-based structured forms for the reporting of suspected adverse reactions by healthcare  professionals and consumers shall be have been  developed by the Agency Member States  in  collaboration with Member States the Agency  in order to collect across the EU harmonised information  relevant for the evaluation of suspected adverse reactions , including errors associated with the use of  medicinal produ cts [REG Art 25] . In this context, core data fields  for reporting  will be made available  by the Agency to the competent authorities in Member States for use in their national reporting  systems as applicable ..   The reports of suspected adverse reactions rec eived from healthcare professionals and consumers  should be acknowledged where appropriate  and further information should be provided to the reporters  as requested  and when available .   Member States shall involve patients and healthcare professionals, as a ppropriate, in the follow -up of  any reports they receive in order to comply with Art icle 102(c) and (e) of Directive 2001/83/EC   [DIR  Art 107a(1)]. Furthermore, for reports submitted by a marketing authorisation holder, Member States  on whose territory the  suspected adverse reaction occurred may involve the marketing authorisation  holder in the follow -up of the reports [DIR Art 107a(2)]. The criteri a upon which a marketing  authorisation holder may be involved include situations where :   important additional i nformation is necessary for case evaluation or reconciliation,    clarifications is needed regarding inconsistent data within ICSRs,    there is a need to obtain further information in the context of the validation of a signal, the  evaluation of a safety issue , the assessment of a periodic safety update report , or the confirmation  of a safety concern in a risk management plan.      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 39/225     In support of the operation of these follow -up procedures, business process maps and process  descriptions are provided  in VI.App.1.1.   and VI.App.1.2 .. Further  guidance on the follow -up of ICSRs   is provided in VI.B.3.  and in VI.C.6.2.2.7. .  For reports submitted by a marketing authorisation holder, Member State s on whose territory the  suspected adverse reaction occurred may involve the marketing authorisation holder in the follow -up  of the reports  [DIR Ar t 107a(2) ].  Each Member State shall ensure that the competent authority reports of suspected adver se reaction s  arising from an error associated with the use of a medicinal product (see VI.A.1.2.  for medi cation error  definition ) that are brought to the ir attention are made available to the EudraVigilance database  and to  any authorities, bodies, organisations and/or institutions, responsible for patient safety within that  Member  State . They shall also ensur e that the authorities  responsible for medicinal products within  that Member State isare informed of any suspected adverse reaction ,reactions  brought to the attention  of any other authority , body, institution or organisation responsible for patient safety within that  Member State, and that valid ICSRs are made available to the EudraVigilance database. Therefore,  where reports of suspected adverse reactions are sent directly to other authorities, bodies,  organisations and/or institutions  within a Member Stat e, the competent authority in that Member State  shall have data exchange agreements in place so that these reports are brought to its attention and  are made available to Eudra Vigilance in a timely manner [DIR Art  107a(5) ]. This applies as well to  reports of  suspected adverse reactions arising from an error associated with the use of a medicinal  product. Those error reports of suspected adverse reactions for which  a competent authority in a  Member State  is made aware of, including those received from the Eudr aVigilance database in  accordance with Article 24(4) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 , shall also be brought to the attention  of other authorities, bodies, organisations and/or institutions responsible for patient safety within that  Member State  [DIR Art 107 a(5)]. within that Member State . These reports shall be appropriately  identified in the standard web -based structured forms  referred to in Art icle 25 of Regulation (EC) No  726/2004 , developed  for the reporting of suspected adverse reactions by healthcare professionals and  patients [DIR Art 107a(5)] . To facilitate such reporting, it may be necessary to implement data  exchange agreements or other arrangements, as appropriate . Further guidance concerning the  management and assessment  of reports of medication errors is provided in the Good Practice Guide on  Recording, Coding, Reporting and Assessment of Medication Errors43.  Pharmacovigilance data and documents relating to individual authorised medicinal products shall be  retained  by the national competent authorities in Member States and the Agency  as long as the  product is authorised and for at least 10 years after the marke ting authorisation has expired. However,  the documents shall be retained for a longer period where Union law or national law so requires  [IR Art  16(2)]  (see VI.C.6.2.4.  and GVP Module I  for guidance  on ICSRs data quality ).   Unless there are justifiable grounds resulting from pharmacovigilance activities, individual Membe r  States shall not impose any additional obligations on marketing authorisation holders for the reporting  of suspected adverse reactions  [DIR Art 107a(6) ].  VI.C.2. 2. Responsibilities of the m arketing a uthorisation holder  in the EU    Each m arketing authorisa tion holder shall have in place a system for the collection and recording of all  reports of suspected adverse reactions in the EU or in third countries  which are brought to its                                                   43 Ref.: EMA/762563/2014 ; EMA website: Home/ Human regulatory/ Post -authorisation/ Pharmacovigilance/ Medication  errors      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 40/225     attention , whether reported spontaneously by healthcare professionals or consum ers or occurring in  the context of a post -authorisation study [DIR A rt 104(1), Art  107(1)].    The Mmarketing authorisation holder s shall establish procedures in order to obtain accurate and  verifiable data for the scientific evaluation of suspected adverse reaction reports  [Dir Art 107(4)] . They  shall not refuse to consider reports of suspected adverse reactions received electronically or by  any other appropriate means from patients and healthcare professionals [ DIR Art 107(2)].   The m All those r eports shall  be accessible at a single point within the Union [Dir Art 107(1)]. All  these reports of suspected adverse reactions shall be accessible at a single point within the Union [Dir  Art 107(1)] . Marketing authorisation holder s shall establish procedures in order  to obtain accurate and  verifiable data for the scientific evaluation of suspected adverse reaction reports  [Dir Art 107(4)] . They  shall also collect follow -up information on these reports and submit the updates to the Eudra vVigilance  database [Dir Art 107 (4)]. The In support of the operation of the follow -up procedures, a business  process map  and a process description are  provided in VI.App .1.1. General  guidance on the follow ing- up of reports of suspected adver se reactions is provided in VI.B.3. . Mmarketing authorisation holder s  shall establish mechanisms enabling the traceability and follow -up of adverse reaction reports while  complying with the data protection legislat ion [IR Art 12 (1)]. In support of the operation of the follow - up procedures, business process map s and process description s are provided in VI.App.1.1.   and  VI.App .1.2.. Further  guidance on the follow -up of ICSRs  is provided in VI.B.3.  and in VI.C.6.2.2.7. .   For the ICSRs  made accessible  to a marketing authorisation hold er from the EudraVigilance database  in accordance with Art icle 24(2)  of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004  and in line with the EudraVigilance  Access Policy for Medicines for Human Use44, the routine request for follow -up by the marketing  authorisation holder  is not foreseen . If the follow -up of an ICSR is necessary for a specific  situation , a  justification should b e provided with the request , which should be addressed directly to the sender  organisation of the ICSR .  Pharmacovigilance data and documents relating to  individual authorised medicinal products shall be  retained by the marketing authorisation holder as long as the product is authorised and for at least 10  years after the marketing authorisation has ceased to exist. However, the documents shall be retained   for a longer period where Union law or national law so requires  [IR Art 12 (2)] (see VI.C.6.2.4.  and  GVP Module I  for guidance  on ICSRs data quality ).  With regard to the collection and recording of reports of suspected adverse reactions , the marketing  authorisation holder s responsibilities apply to reports related to me dicinal products (see ) for which  ownership cannot be excluded on  the basis of one the following criteria : medicinal product name,  active substance name, pharmaceutical form,  batch number  or route of administration  (see also the  introduction to  Section  VI.C. for the type of medicinal products concerned  by EU requirements ).  Exclusion based on the primary source count ry or country of origin of the adverse reaction  is possible  if  the marketing authorisation holder  can dem onstrate that the suspected medicinal product has never  been supplied or placed on the market in that territory or that  the product is not a travel medicine   (e.g., anti-malarial medicinal product) .   The m arketing authorisation holder shall  ensure that any information on  adverse reactions , suspected  to be related to  at least one of the active substance s of its medicinal products authorised in the EU , is  brought to its attention by  any company  outside the EU  belonging to the same mother company (or  group of c ompanies ) 45. The same applies to the marketing authorisation holder when having  concluded a commercial agreement with a company outside the E U for one of its medicinal product                                                   44 EMA website: Home/ Human regulatory/ Post -authorisation/ Pharmacovigilance/ EudraVigilance/ Access to data   45 As outlined in the Commission Communication on the Co mmunity Marketing Authorization Procedures for Medicinal  Products (Ref.: (98/C 229/03 ).     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 41/225     authorised in the EU . Pursuant to Dir Article 107(1)  of Directive 2001/83/EC , the marketing  authorisation holder shall record those reports of suspected adverse reactions  and shall also be ensure  that they  are accessible at a single point within the EU. The source data or an image should be easily  accessible in order to be made availa ble to competent authorities in Member States upon request (see  VI.B.5.  for guidance on quality management ). The clock for reporting the submission  (see VI.B.7. for  day zero definition ) starts when a valid ICSR is first received by one of these companies  outside the  EU.   In addition to the requirements presented in this Section chapter , the definitions and general principles  detailed in VI.A.1.  and Section VI.B., together with the time frames and reporting modalities presented  in VI.C.3 ., VI.C.4 . and VI.C.6 . should be applied by the marketing authorisation holder s to all reports  of suspected adverse reactions.   VI.C.2.2.1. Spontaneous reports   The m Marketing authorisation holder s shall record all reports of s uspected adverse reactions  originating from within or outside the EU, which are brought to their its attention spontaneously by  healthcare professionals , or consumers . This includes  reports of suspected adverse reactions received  electronically or by any o ther appropriate means  [DIR Art 107(1), Art 107 (2)]. In this context, the  marketing authorisation holder s may consider utilising theirits websites to facilitate the collection of  reports of suspected adverse reaction s by providing adverse reaction s forms f or reporting , or  appropriate contact details for direct communication  (see VI.B.1.1.4 . for guidance on ICSRs  management from the internet or digital media ).  VI.C.2.2.2. Solicited reports   In accordance with Article 107(1)  of Directive 2001/83/EC  of Directive 2001/83/EC , the marketing  authorisation holder s shall record all reports of suspected adverse reactions originating from within or  outside the EU, which occur in post -authorisation studies , initiated, manage d, or financed  by that  organisation em46.  For non -interventional post -authorisation studies, th is requirement  applies to study  designs based on primary data collection  and the guidance provided in VI.C.1.2.1. 1. should be  followed.   For all solicited reports  (see VI.B.1.2.  for definition ), the marketing authorisation holder s should have  mechanisms in place to record and document complete  and comprehensive  case informa tion and to  evaluate that information , in order to allow the meaningful assessment of individual cases and  reporting the submission  of valid ICSRs  (see VI.B.2 . for ICSRs validation ) related to the studied (or  supplied) medicinal  product . MThe m arketing authorisation holder s should therefore exercise  due  diligence in establishing such system , in following -up those reports  (see VI.B.3 . for follow -up guidance )  and in seeking  the view of the primary source as regard s the causal role of the studied (or supplied)  medicinal product  on the notified adverse event . Where  this opinion is missing , the marketing  authorisation holder should exercise its own judgement  to perform a causal ity assessment based on  the information available in orde r to decide whether the report is a valid ICSR, which should be  reported submitted  in accordance with the  time frames and modalities presented in VI.C.3. , VI.C.4.  and  VI.C.6 .to the competent authorities . This requirement does not apply to study designs based on  secondary use of data  since reporting the submission of ICSRs is not re quired ( see VI.C.1.2.1 .2. for  guidance on this type of studies VI.C.1.2.1 .). Safety data  from solicited reports to be presented in the                                                   46 This does not concern donation of a medicinal product for research purpose i f the marketing authorisation holder has no  control on the study.      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 42/225     relevant  sections of the periodic safety update report of the authorised medicinal product are detailed  in GVP Module V II.   VI.C.2.2.3. Case reports published in the scientific l iterature medical literature   General principles in relation to the monitoring  for individual cases of suspected adverse reactions  described  in the scientific  and medical literature medical literatur e are provided in VI.B.1.1.2 ..  AsDetailed guidance on the monitoring of the scientific and medical literature medical literature  is  provided  in VI.App .2.. Electronic reporting subm ission  recommendation gsuidance  for ICSRs  published in  the scientific and medical literature medical literature  are provided in VI.C.6.2.3.2. .  With regard s to the screening  of the scientific and medical l iterature medical literature , the  requirements provided in this Module are part of  the marketing authorisation holder obligations  reporting in relation to (i) the submission  of individual cases of suspected adverse reactions , as well as  and to  (ii) the wider  literature searches which need to be conducted for periodic safety update reports  (see GVP Module VII ).  VI.C. 2.2.3. 1 Monitoring of the medical literature medical literature  by the European  Medicines Agency   In line with Art icle 27 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 , Tthe Agency shall monitor s selected medical  literature for reports of suspected adverse reactions to med icinal products containing certain active  substances. It shall publish es a list of active substances being monitored and the medical literature  subject to this monitoring . The Agency shall enter s into the EudraVigilance database relevant  information from t he selected medical literature . The Agency  shall, in consultation with the European  Commission, Member States and interested parties, draw s up a detailed guide regarding the  monitoring of medical literature and the entry of relevant information into the Eu draVigilance database   [REG Art 27] .  The medical literature and the active substances subject to the monitoring by the Agency are published  aton a dedicated webpage47 of the Agency’s website  together with supporting documents . Further  information  is also provided in the  Detailed Guide Regarding the Monitoring of Medical Literature and  the Entry of Relevant Information into the EudraVigilance Database by the European Medicines  Agency48, , which defines the different steps of the medical literature monitoring (M LM) business  processes.    ICSRs resulting from the MLM service performed by the Agency can be accessed from the  EudraVigilance  database by the marketing authorisation holder concerned . They are also made  available for download in XML format . This refers to ICSRs of serious  suspected adverse reactions   occurring within and outside the E U, and to ICSRs of non-serious suspected adverse reactions  from  within the E U.   In accordance with Articleicle 107(3)  of Directive 2001/83/EC  of Directive 2001/83/EC , in order  and to  avoid the reporting submission  of duplicate ICSR s, the marketing authorisation holder s shall only  report submit  those ICSRs described  in the scientific and medical literature medical literature  which is  not reviewed by the Agency , for all medicinal pr oducts containing active substances which are not  included in the list monitored  by the Agency pursuant to Articleicle 27 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004   of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 .                                                    47 EMA website: Home/ Human regulatory/ Post -authorisati on/ Pharmacovigilance/ Medical literature monitoring   Monitoring  of medical literature and entry of adverse reaction rep orts into EudraVigilance    48 Ref.: (Doc Ref.  EMA/161530/2014EMA/161530/2014 EMA/161530/2014; EMA website: Home/ Human regu latory/ Post - authorisation/ Pharmacovigilance/ Medical literature monitoring  )     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 43/225     Until such lists of scientific and medical  literature and active subst ance names  are published by the  Agency, marketing authorisation holders should monitor all the active substances for which they hold a  marketing authorisation in the EU by accessing  a widely used systematic literature review and  reference database , in line  with the principles detailed in VI.B.1.1.2 . and in VI. Appendix  2.   Articles can be excluded from the reporting of ICSRs by the marketing authorisation holder if anothe r  company's branded medicinal product is the suspected medicinal product. In the absence of a specified  medicinal product source and/or invented name, ownership of the medicinal product should be  assumed for arti cles about an active substance , unless alternative reasons  for exclusion  detailed  hereafter  apply :  VI.C.2.2.3.2 Exclusion criteria for the reporting submission  of ICSRs published in the  scientific literature medical literature   The following exclusion criteria for the submission of ICSRs reporting  to the EudraVigilance database  by a marketing authorisation holder s may be applyied for individual cases published in the scientific  literature medical literature :   a. where ownership of the suspected medicinal product by the marketing authorisation holder can be  excluded on the basis of the criteria detailed  in VI.C.2.2 .; medicinal product name, active  substance name, pharmaceutical form, batch number  or route of administration ;   b. for individual case safety re ports identified in the scientific and medical literature that  originate which originate s in a country where a company holds a marketing authorisation but has  never commercialised the medicinal product ;  c. for literature ICSRs  which areis based on an analysis from a competent authority database within   the EU. TheHowever , the reporting submission  requirements remain for th ose ICSRs which are  based on the analysis from a competent authority database outside the EU ;  d. for literature articles,  which present present s aggregated  data analyses  or line listings refers to data   from publicly available databases  or, (e.g. poison control centres ), and where  the cases are  presented in aggregate tables or line listings . The submission requirement remain s for valid cases   described  individually ;   e. which summarise summarise spresents  the results from post -authorisation studies , meta -analyses ,   (see VI.C.1.2.). This type of literature article or literature reviews ,;   f. which describes  suspecte d adverse reactions , which occur  in a group of patients with a designated  medicinal product  with the aim of and theindividual  patient s cannot be identified  individually for  creating valid case report sICSRs  (see VI.B.2. for ICSRs validation) .   For points d to f, t his type of literature aim s at identifying or quantifying a safety hazard related to a  medicinal product , and aggregated  data on patients are often  presented in tables or line listings .. The  main objective  of those studies  is to detect/evaluate specific risks that could affect the overall risk- benefit balance of a medicinal product.    New and significant safety findings presented in these articles , for which reporting the submission of  ICSRs is not required , should however be discussed in the relevant sections of the concerned periodic  safety update report (see GVP Module VII ) and analysed as regards their overall impact on the  medicinal product risk-benefit profile. In addition, any new safety information, which may impact on  the risk-benefit profile of a medicinal product, should be notified immediate ly to the competent  authorities in Member States where the medicinal product is authorised and to the Agency in  accordance with the recommendations guidance  provided in VI.C.2.2.6 ..     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 44/225     A detailed guidance on the mon itoring of the scientific and medical literature has been d eveloped  in  accordance with Article 27(3) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 ; it is included in VI. Appendix  2.   The electronic reporting recommendation s regarding suspected adverse reactions reports published in  the scientific and medical  literature are provided in VI.C.6.2.3.2 ..  VI.C.2.2.4. Suspected adverse rea ctions related to quality def ect or falsified medicinal  products   When a report of suspected adverse reactions is associated with a suspected or confirmed  falsified  medicinal product49 or(see GVP Annex I ) or with a quality defect of a medicinal product, a valid ICSR   should be reported submitted . The seriousness of the ICSR is linked to the seriousness of the reported  suspected adverse reactions in accor dance with the definitions provided in VI.A.2.4 VI.A.2.4 VI.A.1.6..  The guidance on the eElectronic reporting submission  recommendations of ICSRs provided in  VI.C.6.2.3. 5. should be followed.   In addition i n order to protect public health, it may become necessary to implement urgent measures  such as the recall of one or more def ective batch(es) of a medicinal product from the market.  Therefore, the marketing authorisation holders should have a system in place to ensure that reports of  suspected adverse reactions related to falsified medicinal products or to quality defects of a m edicinal  products are investigated in a timely fashion and that confirmed quality defects are notified separately  to the manufacturer and to the competent authorities in Member States in accordance with the  provisions described in Article 13 of Directive 2003/94/EC .  VI.C.2.2.5. Suspected transmission via a medicinal product of an infectious agent   For the purposes of reporting, Aany suspected transmission of an in fectious agent via a medicinal  product (including vaccines) should be considered as a serious adverse reaction and such case s should  be reported submitted  within 15 days  in accordance with the requirements outlined in VI.C.4 . and the  electronic submission guidance  detailed in VI.C.6.2.3.6.  50. If no other criterion is applicable , the  seriousness of this ICSR should be considered as important m edical event (s ee VI.A.2.4 VI.A.1.6.  for  seriousness definition ). This also applies to vaccines . Electronic  reporting recommendations provided in  VI.C.6.2.3.6 .VI.C.6.2.3.6.  should be followed.    In the case of medicinal products derived from human blood or human plasma, haemovigilance  procedures may also apply in accordance with Directive 2002/98/EC Directive 2002/98/EC . Therefore   the marketing authorisation holder  should have a system in place to communicate any suspected  transmission of an infectious agent via a medicinal prod uct of an infectious agent to the manufacturer,  the relevant blood establishment(s) and national competent authorit ies in Member States .  Any organism, virus or infectious particle (e.g. prion protein transmitting transmissible spongiform  encephalopathy), p athogenic or non -pathogenic, is considered an infectious agent.   A transmission of an infectious agent may be suspected from clinical signs or symptoms, or laboratory  findings indicating an infection in a patient exposed to a medicinal product.   Emphasis sh ould be on the detection of infections/infectious agents known to be potentially  transmitted via a medicinal product, but the occurrence of unknown agents should also always be  considered .                                                    49 see GVP Annex I  and EMA webp age on falsified medicines : Home/ Human regulatory/ Overview/ Public health threats/  Falsified medicines   50 See VI.C.6.2.3.6 . for electronic reporting submission recommendations  of ICSRs .     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 45/225     In the context of evaluating a suspected transmission of an infect ious agent via a medicinal product,  care should be taken to discriminate, whenever possible, between  the cause (e.g.  injection/   admin istration) and the source (e.g.  contamination) of the infection and the clinical conditions  of the  patient at the time of t he infection  (immuno -suppressed /vaccinee).   Confirmation of contamination (including inadequate inactivation/attenuation of infectious agents as  active substances) of the concerned medicinal product increases the evidence for transmission of an  infectious  agent  and may therefore be suggestive of a quality defect  for which the procedures detailed  in VI.C.2.2. 4. should be applied .   Medicinal products should comply with the recommendations provided in the Note for Guidance on  Minimising the Risk of Transmitting Animal Sp ongiform Encephalopathy Agents v ia Human and  Veterinary Products51. For advanced therapy medicinal products, Article 14 (5) of Regulation (EC) No  1394/2007  and the Guideline on Safety and Efficacy Follow -up - Risk Management of Advanced  Therapy Medicinal Products52, should also be followed as appropriate .  VI.C.2.2.6. Emerging safety issues   Event s/observations  may occur  in relation to an authorised medicinal product , which do not fall within  the definition of reportable valid ICSRs , and thus are not subject to the reporting requirements , even  though they may lead to changes  in may have major impac ts on the known risk-benefit balance ofof  the  a medicinal  product  and/or impact on patient s or public health .. Examples include :  major safety findings from a newly completed non -clinical study;   major safety concerns identified in the course of a non-interventional post-authorisation study or of a  clinical trial;   signal of a possible teratogen  effect or of significant hazard to public health;   safety issues publis hed in the scientific and medical  literature;   safety issues arising from the signal detection ac tivity (see Module IX) or emerging from a new ICSR   and which impact on the risk -benefit balance of the medicin al product  and/or have implications for  public health ;  safety issues related to the use outside the terms of the marketing authorisation;   safety issues due to misinformation in the product information;   marketing authorisation withdrawal, non -renewal, revoc ation or suspension outside the EU for safety - related reasons;   urgent safety restrictions outside the EU ;  safety issues  in relation to the supply of ra w material;   lack of supply of medicines .  These events/observations , which may affect the risk -benefit bal ance of a medicinal product , are not to  be submitted as ICSRs. They should be  notified  as emerging safety issues in writing to the competent  authorities in Member States where the medicinal product is authorised and to the Agency  via email                                                   51 Latest revision . (Ref.: EMA/410/01 EMA/410/01 ; EMA website: Home/ Human regulatory/ Research and development/  Advanced therapies/ Scientific guid elines )  52 Ref.: EMEA/149995/2008 EMEA/149995/2008 EMEA/149995/2008 ; EMA website:  Home/ Human regulatory/ Post - authorisation/ Advanced therapies/ Pharmacovigilance      Guideline  on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 46/225     (P-PV-emerging -safety -issue@ema.europa.eu ); this should be done  immediately when becoming  aware of them . The document should indicate the points of concern and the actions proposed in  relation to the marketi ng application/ authorisation  for the concerned medicinal product . Those safety  issues should also be analysed in the relevant sections of the periodic safety update report of the  authorised medicinal product  They may require urgent attention of the compete nt authority and could  warrant prompt regulatory action and communication to patients and healthcare professionals. They  These important new evidences  should be  notified considered  as emerging safety issues  (see GVP  Annex I ). They should be notified to the competent authorities and the Agency  in accordance with the  requirements provided in GVP Module IX . This is in addition to the ICSR submission requirements  detailed in VI.C.3 . and VI.C.4., when the emerging safety issue refers to a single case of suspected  adverse reactions (see VI.C.6.2.2.1.  for general guidance on ICSRs preparation ).  VI.C.2.2 .7. Period between the submission of the marketing authorisation application and  the granting of the marketing authorisation   In the period between the submission of the marketing authorisation application and the granting of  the marketing authorisation , information  (quality, non -clinical , clinical ) that could impact on the risk- benefit balance  of the medicinal product under evaluation  may b ecome available to the applicant53. It  is the responsibility of the applicant to ensure that this information is immedia tely submitted  in  accordance with the modalities described in VI.C.2.2. 6. to the competent authorities in the Me mber  States where the application is under assessment (including Reference Member State and all  concerned Member States for products assessed under the mutual recognition or decentralised  procedures)  and to the Agency . For appl ications  under the centralised procedure , the information  should  also be provided to the (Co-) Rapporteur.   In the situation whe re a medicinal product application is under evaluation in the EU while it has already  been authorised in a third country, v alid ICSRs from outside the EU , originating from unsolicited  reports (see VI.B.1.1 . for definition ) or solicited reports (s ee VI.B.1.2 . for definition ), should be  reported submitted  in accordance with the time frames and modalities requirements  provided in VI.C.3.,  VI.C.4 . and VI.C.6 ..   VI.C.2.2.8. Period after suspension, revocation or withdrawal of marketing authorisation   The marketing authorisation holder  shall continue to collect any  reports of  suspected adverse reaction s  related to the concerned medicinal product following the suspension of a marketing authorisation. The  time frames and reporting submission requirements outline d in VI.C.3., VI.C.4 . and VI.C.6. remain  for  valid ICSRs .  Where a marketing authorisation is withdrawn or revoked, the former marketing authorisation holder  is  encouraged to continue  to collect spontaneous reports of suspected adverse reactions originating  within the EU to, for example , facilitate the review of delayed onset adverse reactions or of  retrospectively notified cases.   VI.C.2.2.9. Period during a public health emergency   A public health emergency is a public health threat duly recognised either by the World Health  Organization (WHO) or the Community in the framework of Decision No. 2119/98/EC Decision No.  2119/98/EC  as amended  of the European Parliament and of the Council. In the event of a public health                                                   53 See also chapter 1, section 5.1.1 of Volume 2A (Notice to Applicants) of The Rules  Governing Medicinal Products in the  European Union ., accessible  athttp://ec.europa.eu/health/documents/eudralex/vol -2/index_en.htm.      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 47/225     emergency, regular reporting submission  requirements may be amended. Such arrangements will be  considered on a case -by-case basis and will be appropriately notified on the Agency website.   VI.C.2.2.10. Reports from class action law suits   Stimulated r eport s arising from class action law suits should be managed  as spontaneous  reports. Valid  ICSRs  should  describe  suspected adverse reactions related to the concerned  medicinal product. They   should be reported submitted  in accordance with the time frames and modalities described in VI.C.3 .,  VI.C.4 . and VI.C.6 ..  Where large batches of potential ICSRs are received, the marketing authorisation holder s may request ,  in exceptional circumstances , for an exemption in order to submit serious cases of suspected adve rse  reactions within 30 days from their date of receipt instead of 15 days. The 90 days reporting  submission  time frame for non -serious ICSRs remains unchanged. It will be possible to apply for this  exemption  only once the functionalities of the EudraVigil ance database specified in Article 24(2)  of  Regulation (EC) No 726/2004  are established. The request should be made to the Agency ’s  pharmacovigilance department .  VI.C.2.2.1 1. Reports from p atient support programme s and market research programme s  A patient support programme is an organised system  where a marketing authorisation holder receives   and collect s information relating to the use of its medicinal product s. Examples are post -authorisation  patient support and disease management programmes, surveys of p atients and healthcare  providers professionals , information gathering on patient compliance, or compensation/re -imbursement  schemes.   A market research programme refers to  the systematic collection, recording and analysis by a  marketing authorisation holder  of data and findings  about its medicinal products , relevant for  marketing and business development.   Safety reports originating from those programmes should be considered as solicited reports. The  mMarketing authorisation holder s should have the same mecha nisms in place as for  all other  solicited  reports  (see VI.C.2.2.2 . for marketing authorisation holders responsibilities on solicited reports ) to  manage that information  and report to submit , in line with the time fr ames and modalities  outlined in  VI.C.3.  and VI.C.4. , valid cases of adverse reactions , which are suspected to be related to  the  concerned medicinal product .  Valid ICSRs  should be reported submitted  as solicited  in accordance with the electronic reporting  requirements guidance  provided in  VI.6.2.3.7 Subsection 1 .  VI.C.2.2.12. Report ing of off -label use   The off -label use of a medicina l product may occur for various reasons  (see definition in VI.A.1.2. and  GVP Annex I ). Examples  include the intentional use of a product in situation s other than the one s  described in the authorised product information , such as :   a different indication in term of medical condition;    a different group of patients;    a different rou te or method of administration ;   a different posology.      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 48/225     With r egard  to the management of  individual reports referring to  the off-label use  of a product , the  responsibilities  of the marketing authorisation holder  can be  summarised as follows , depending if the  off-label use  results in the patient’ s harm:  a. The o ff-label use of a medicinal produc t results in patient ’s harm with occurrence of a  suspected adverse reaction   In line with Article 107(1) , 107(3)  and 107(4)  of Directive 2001/83/EC , the marketing  authorisation holder shall collect individual reports of suspected adverse reactions when becoming  aware of them.  The reports  shall be routinely followed -up to ensure that the information is as  complete as possible  (see VI.C.2.2.  for marketing authorisation holders’  responsibilities  on ICSRs ).  Valid ICSRs shall be  submitted  to the EudraVigilance  database  in accordance with the time frames ,  and modalities provided  in VI.C.3. , VI.C.4. , and VI.C.6.2.3.3 .   Where relevant and appropriate,  the benefit -risk analysis evaluation presented in the periodic  safety update report should take into account the clinical importance of a risk in relation to the  off-label use of the concerned medicinal product  (see GVP Module VII ).   In line with the guidance provided in GVP Module V,  where there is a scientific  rationale that an  adverse clinical outcome might be associated with the off-label use  of the product , the adverse  reaction should be considered a potential risk, and if deemed important, should be included in the  list of safety concerns of the risk manage ment plan as an important potential risk. This is  particularly  relevant , when differences in safety concerns between the target and the off -label  population are anticipated . Important potential risks included in the risk management plan would  usually requi re further evaluation as part of the pharmacovigilance plan.   b. The o ff-label use of a medicinal product  does not result in patient ’s harm  and occurrence  of a suspected adverse reaction   The potential obligations regarding the collection of data on the  off-label use o f a medicinal  product  are set out in Art icle 23(2)  of Directive 2001/83/EC , which requires the marketing  authorisation holder to report to competent authorities  in Member States any other new  information which might  influence the evaluation  of the benefits  and risks of the medicinal  product , including data on the use of the product where such use is outside the terms of the  marketing authorisation.   Under this condition , the most appropriate way to deliver a planned and risk proportionate  approac h to enable the monitoring of the use of a specific medicinal product in routine clinical  settings is through the  risk management plan.  Where the potential for off -label use has been  identified for a product  and such use could  raise a safety concern  (i.e. because  there is a justified  supposition that an important  potential risk might be associated with the off -label use of the  product ) the risk management plan should discuss  the need of pharmacovigilance activities  in  terms of :  - Specific follow -up questionna ires for suspected adverse reactions derived from the  off-label use ;  - Other required forms of routine pharmacovigilance activities for the targeted  collection and follow -up of individual reports  of off-label use not associated with  suspected adverse reactio ns;   - Additional structured investigations (such as drug utilisation studies, searches in  databases).      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 49/225     If collected  in the frame of the  routine pharmacovigilance activities , individual reports of off -label  use with no suspected adver se reaction  should not b e submitted  to the EudraVigilance  database  since the min imum criteria for ICSRs validation are incomplete ( see VI.B.2.  for ICSRs validation ).  As part of risk management planning, the monitoring of the off-label u se should focus on  collection and assessment of information which might influence the evaluation of the benefits and  risks of the concerned medicinal product.   For products without a risk management plan, the marketing authorisation holder  and the  competent  authorit y should consider whether the off-label use of the product constitutes a safety  concern. If it does, then consideration should be given to requiring a risk management plan or a  post-authorisation safety study.  Some M ember States may already have p ut in place specific requirements  at national level regarding  the collection and submission  by marketing authorisation holders  of information on the off-label use of  their products . The guidance  presented in this chapter  should not be interpreted as preven ting the  fulfilment of those local obligations.   VI.C.3. Reporting Submission  time frames  of ICSRs in EU   The g eneral rules in relation to  the reporting  submission  of initial and follow -up reports , including those  for defining the clock start are detailed in  VI.B.7..  According to Articleicles 107(3) and 107a(4)  of Directive 2001/83/EC  of Directive 2001/83/EC ,    serious valid ICSRs shall be reported submitted  by the competent authorit iesy in a Member States  or by the marketing authorisation holder s within 15 days from the  date of receipt of the reports;    non-serious valid ICSRs shall be reported submitted  by the competent authorit iesy in a Member  States or by the marketing authorisation holder s within 90 days from the da te of receipt of the  reports .   This should be done in accordance with the reporting modalities detailed in VI.C.4 ..  ICH-E2B provides a mechanism to the sender to indicate whether a valid ICSR the case fulfils the local  expedited regulatory  requirements  for submission  to the EudraVigilance database  within the 15 or 90- day time frame . In line with ICH -E2B the following applies  for allthe  serious and non -serious ICSRs  which need  to be submitted reportable in the EU based on the modalities detailed in VI.C.4. :  Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R2)   Data element A.1.9 ‘ Does this case fulfil the local criteria for an expedited report?’   should be  completed  with the value  1 (YES)  when the ICSR needs  to be submitted  within the 15 or 90 -day time frame .    The population of this data element is optional under ICH-E2B(R2) .  ICH-E2B(R3)   Data element C.1.7 ‘Does this Case fulfil the local criteria for an expedited r eport?’  should be completed  with the value TRUE  when the ICSR needs  to be submitted  within the 15 or 90 -day time frame .    The population of this data element is mandatory under ICH-E2B(R 3).     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 50/225     VI.C.4. Reporting Submission  modalities  of ICSRs in EU   In addition to the recomme ndations guidance  provided in VI.B.8., the competent authorit yies in a  Member State s and the marketing authorisation holder s shall use the format s, standards and  terminologies  for the electronic transmission subm ission  of suspected adverse reactions as referred to  in chapter  Chapter IV of the  Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 520/2012  of the  Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 520/2012 . ICSRs shall be used for reporting the  submission  to the Eudrav igilance Eudra Vigilance database of reports of suspected adverse reactions to  a medicinal product that occur in a single patient at a specific point in time  [IR Art 27 ]. The  cCompetent authorities authorit y in a Member State s and the marketing authorisatio n holder s shall  also ensure that all  reported submitted  electronic ICSRs are well documented and as complete as  possible in accordance with the requirements provided in [IR Article 28 of the Commission  Implementing Regulation (EU) No 520/2012 ].   The time fr ames for reporting submitting serious and non -serious valid ICSRs are provided in VI.C.3 ..  The recommendations guidance  provided in  VI.C.6. should be adhere d to as regards the e lectronic  exchange of pharmacovigilance information between competent authorities in Member States,  marketing authorisation holders  and the Agency.   ICSRs reported  electronically  to the EudraVigilance database  will be made accessible to stakeholders  such as  competent authorities , healthcare professionals,  consumers, as well as marketing authorisation  holders  and research organisations in accordance with Article 24(2) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004   and the EudraVigilance Access Policy for Medicines for Human Use54. This policy defines the overall  principles of the provision of access to EudraVigilance data in line with the current legal framework,  while guaranteeing personal data protection.  As detailed in  the EudraVigilance access policy , a  selection of ICSRs could be downloaded by marketing authorisation holders in ICH E2B format and in  accordance with the ICH M2 message specifications , to facilitate their pharmacovigilance activities .  VI.C.4.1. Interim  arrangement s  In accordance line with the provisions set o ut in Article 2(4), Article 2(5)  and Article 2(6)  of Directive  2010/84/ EU, until the Agency can ensure the functionalities of the EudraVigilance database as  specified in Article 24(2) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 , Article 107(3) and 107a(4)  of Directive  2001/83/EC  of Directive 2001/83/EC , the following reporting submission  requirements shall apply to  valid unsolicited and solicited ICSRs  reported by healthcare professional s and non -healthcare  professional s. This is independently of the condition of use of  the suspected medicinal product and of  the expectedness of the adverse reaction .  a. Serious ICSRs   Marketing authorisation holders  shall report all serious ICSRs that occur in the EU to the competent  authority of the Member State on whose territory the sus pected adverse reaction s occur red.  Marketing authorisation holders shall report  to the EudraVigilance database all serious ICSRs  that occur  outside  the EU , including those received from competent authorities . If required  by Member States ,  those reports sh all also be submitted to the competent authorities in the Member States  in which  the  medicinal product is authorised.   Competent authorities in Member State s shall ensure that all serious ICSRs that occur in their territory  and that are reported to them, inc luding those received from marketing authorisation holders, are   made available to the EudraVigilance database.  Competent authorities in Member States should also                                                   54 http://www.ema.europa.eu      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 51/225     make available , to the marketing authorisation holders of the suspected medicinal products, al l serious  ICSRs  reported directly to them .  b. Non-Serious ICSRs   If required  by Member States , marketing authorisation holders shall report all non -serious ICSRs  that  occur in the EU to the competent authority of the Member State on who se territory the susp ected  adverse reactions occurred .  Overview s of the reporting requirements of serious and non -serious reports during the interim  period ,  applicable to marketing authorisation holders or competent authorities in Member States, are   presented  in VI.App 3.1., together with a detailed business process map.   Member States reporting requirements for serious non -EU ICSRs and for non -serious EU ICSRs are also   included in  this Appendix .   VI.C.4.2. Final arrangement s  Once th e functionalities of the EudraVigilance database specified in Article 24(2) of Regulation (EC) No  726/2004  are established,  the following requirements , detailed in Articles 107(3) and 107a(4) of  Directive 2001/83/EC , shall apply within 6 months of the anno uncement by the Agency  to valid  unsolicited and solicited ICSRs  reported by healthcare professional s and non -healthcare professional s  in relation to medicinal products  for human use authorised in the EU in accordance with Directive  2001/83/EC  and Regulatio n (EC) No 726/2004 . This is relevant  independently irrespective  of the  condition of use of the suspected medicinal product and of the expectedness of the adverse reaction .  a. Serious ICSRs    The m Marketing authorisation holder s shall submit  all serious ICSRs that occur  within or outside  the EU , including those received from competent authorit ies outside the EU , to the EudraVigilance  database only .   The c Competent authorit iesy in a Member State s shall submit  to the EudraVigilance database  all  serious ICSRs  that occur  in their its territory  and that are directly reported  by healthcare  professionals or consumers  to them.  b. Non-Serious ICSRs     The m Marketing authorisation holder s shall submit  all non-serious ICSRs that occur in the EU  to  the EudraVigilance database only.   The c Competent authorities authority in a Member State s shall submit to the EudraVigilance  database all non-serious ICSRs that occur in their its territory  to the EudraVigilance database and  that are directly reported  by healthcare professionals or co nsumers .  Overview s of the reporting submission  requirements of for serious and non -serious ICSRs reports ,  applicable to marketing authorisation holders or and compete nt authorities in Member States , together  with a business process map  and a process descrip tion, once the final arrangement s are implemented,   are are presented in VI.App3App.3.21..,, VI.App.3. 2. and VI.App.3. 3.together with a detailed business  process map  and a process description .  In accord ance line with the requirement d etailed  in Articleicle 24(4)  of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004  of  Regulatio n (EC) No 726/2004  for the final arrang ements , the ICSRs submitted to the EudraVigilance  database by a marketing authorisation holder s shall be automatically  transmitted  upon receipt , to the  competent authority of the Member State where the reaction occurred . When the primary source  country and the country of occurrence of the reaction  differ, the competent authorities of the     Guide line on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 52/225     concerned member states in the EU will be automatically notified about these specific  ICSRs . A  detailed Relevant  business process map  is and a process description  concerning  the automatic  retransmission of ICSRs are included in VI.App3App.3.34... .   In accordance with Articleicle 24(2)  of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004  of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 ,  the data submitted  to the EudraVigilance database are made accessible to stakeholders such as  competent authorities, healthcare professionals, consumers, as well as marketing authorisation holders  and research institution s. This is made  Access is provided based on  the latest v ersion of the   EudraVigilance Access Policy for Medicines for Human Use55. This  policy defines the overall principles  ofin relation to  the provision of access to EudraVigilance data in line with the current legal framework,  while guaranteeing personal data p rotection. VI.C.5.   Additionally, the EudraVigilance database shall also be accessible to marketing authorisation holders to  the extent necessary for them to comply with their pharmacovigilance obligations  [REGeg. Art 24(2)] .   Further guidance on the access by stakeholders of the data submitted to the EudraVigilance database  is available  on the EudraVigilance  webpage56.   VI.C.5. Collaboration with  bodies outside  the EU regulatory  network  VI.C. 5.1. Collaboration with the World Health Organization Organi sation  and the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction   In accordance with Art icle 28c(1)  of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 , tThe Agency shall make available to  the WHO (in practice the Uppsala Monitoring Centre (UMC) as the WHO Collabora ting Centre  for  International Drug Monitoring ) all suspected adverse reaction reports occurring in the EU [REG Art  28c(1) ]. In this regard , ICSRs  from the EU submitted to the EudraVigilance database by competent  authorities in Member States and marketing authorisation h olders  are transmitted to the WHO  electronically in ICH -E2B(R3) format  This will take takes place on a weekly basis  after their  transmission to the EudraVigilance database by competent authorities in Member States or marketing  authorisation holders . It will replace  in line with the  latest version of the  EudraVigilance Access Policy  for Medicines for Human Use57. Details are set out in a service level agreement between the Agency  and the WHO , accessible on EMA website58. ItThis replace s the requirements of EU Member States  participating in the WHO Programme for Intern ational Drug Monitoring to directly report to WHO  suspected adverse reaction s reports occurring in their territory . This will be implemented once the  functionalities of the EudraVigilance database s pecified in Article 24(2) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004  are established .  A detailed  business process map  and a process description  for the reporting submission  of ICSRs, from  the EudraVigilance database to the WHO Collabora ting Centre  for International Dr ug Monitoring , isare  presented in VI. Appendix App 4.  The Agency and the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction shall  also exchange  information that they receive on the abuse of medicinal pr oducts including information related to illicit  drugs  [REG Art 28c(2)].                                                   55 Ref.: EMA/759287/2009 ; EMA website: Home/ Human regulatory/ Post -authorisation/ Pharmacovigilance/  EudraVigilance/ Access to data  Ref.: EMA/ 759287/2009   56 EMA website: Home/ Human regulatory/ Post -authorisation/ Pharmacovigilance/ EudraVigilance/ Access to data   57 Ref.: EMA/759287/2009 ; EMA website: Home/ Human regulat ory/ Post -authorisation/ Pharmacovigilance/  EudraVigilance/ Access to data   58 EMA website: Home/ Partners & Ne tworks/ International organisations/ WHO      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices ( GVP) – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 53/225     VI.C.6. El ectronic exchange of safety information in the EU  Chapter VI.C.6 . highlights  the requirements , as defined in Articleicles 24(1) and   24(3)  of Regulation  (EC) No 726/2004  of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 , for the establishment and maintenance of the  European database and data processing network (the EudraVigilance database) in order to collate and  share pharmacovigilance information electronically between competent authorities in Member States,  marketing authorisation holder s and the Agency, in ways which ensure the quality and integrity of the  data collected .  The information provided here is relevant for the electronic exchange  of ICSRs in  the EU  between all  stakeholders  and for the electronic submission of information on medicinal products to the Agency .   VI.C.6.1. Applicable guidelines, definitions , international formats,  standards and terminologies   For the classification, retrieval, presentation, risk -benefit evaluation and as sessment, electronic  exchange and communication of pharmacovigilance and medicinal product information, Member  States, marketing authorisation holders and the Agency shall adher e to the legal requirements   provided in chapter Chapter IV and V of the  Commiss ion Implementing Regulation (EU) No 520/2012   of the Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 520/2012 .   In addition the following guidelines should be applied:    Note for guidance - EudraVigilance Human - Processing of Safety M essages and Individual Case  Safety Reports (ICSRs)  (EMA/H/20665/04/Final Rev. 2 ) (EudraVigilance Business Rules);    Note for Guidance on the Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) of Individual Case Safety Reports  (ICSRs) and Medicinal Products (MPRS) in Pharmacovigilance during the pre - and post - authorisation phase in the European economic area (EEA)  (EMEA/115735/2004 );   The ICH guidelines Guidelines  detailed in VI.B.8 .;   The ICH -M5 guideline Guideline  ‘Routes of Administration Controlled Vocabul ary’  (CHMP/ICH/175860/2005 ), which provides standard terms for routes of administration ;   The g uidelines applicable based  on ICSRs  for the ICH-E2B(R2) and ICH -E2B(R3)  format s:  Reference  Guidelines   ICH-E2B(R2)   Note for guidance - EudraVigilance Human - Processing of Safety Messages  and Individual Case Safety Reports (ICSRs)  (EMA/H/20665/04/Final Rev. 2 )  (also referred as EudraVigilance Business Rules);    Note for Guidance on the Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) of Individual  Case Safety Reports (ICSRs) and Medici nal Products (MPR S) in  Pharmacovigilance during the pre - and post -authorisation phase in the  European economic area (EEA ) ().  ICH-E2B(R3)   EU Individual Case Safety Report ( ICSR) Implementation Guid e ()59;   EU ICSR Implementation Guide Business Rules Spreads heet60;                                                   59 Ref.: EMA/51938/2013; EMA website:  Home/ Human regulatory/ Post -authorisation/ Pharmacovigilance/ EudraVigilance/  Electronic reporting   60 EMA website: Home/ Human regulatory/ Post -authorisation/ Pharmaco vigilance/ EudraVigilance/change management      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 54/225      EU Backwards Forwards Conversion Element Mapping  Spreadsheet Spreadsheet60;    EU E2B(R3) code lists60;   EU reference instances instances60;    EU example instances instances60.  The latest version of these documents should always be considered taken into ac count .  VI.C.6.2. Electronic reporting submission of individual case safety reports   The reporting submission  of valid ICSRs  electronically , by competent authorities in Member States and  marketing authorisation holders , is mandatory for all medicinal product s authorised in the EU [DIR Art  107(3), Art 107a(4) ]. Non -adherence to this requirement constitutes a non-compliance with EU  legislation.  Responsibilities   The responsibilities  in case of communication failure  (including adherence  to compliance  for  reportin gsubmission of ICSRs ) are detailed in  the EU Individual Case Safety Report ( ICSR)  Implementation Guid e59. chapter IV of the Note for Guidance on the Electronic Data Interchange (EDI)  of Individual Case Safety Reports (ICSRs) and Medicinal Product Reports ( MPRs) in Pharmacovigilance  during the Pre - and Post -authorisation Phase in the European Economic Area (EEA)   (EMEA/115735/2004 ).:   Reference  Guidelines   EudraVigilance database (current)  Chapter IV of the Note for Guidance on the  Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) of Individual Case  Safety Reports (ICSRs) and Medicinal Product  Reports (MPRs) in Pharmacovigilance during the Pre -  and Post -authorisation Phase in the European  Economic Area (EEA)  (EMEA/115735/2004 ).  EudraVigilance database  (new  functiona lities)   Applicable six months following the  announcement by the Agency that the new   functionalities specified in Article 24(2) of  Regulation (EC) No 726/2004  are  established . Chapter I.C.2.1.6 of the EU ICSR Implementation  Guide  (EMA/51938/2013 ).  Technical tools (EVWEB) have been made available by the Agency to interested electronic data  interchange  partners, including  small and medium -sized enterprises, to facilitate compliance with the  electronic reporting submission  requirements of ICSRs as defined in EU legislation.  Information is  available on the EudraVigilance web pagesite61,.  together with  some guidance on the access by  stakeholders to the data submitted to the EudraVigilance  database62.                                                   61  EMA website:  Home/ Human regulatory/ Post -authorisation/ Pharmacovigilanc e/ EudraVigilance    http://eudravigilance.ema.europa.eu http://eudravigilance.ema.europa.eu   62 EMA website:  Home/ Human regulatory/ Post -authorisation/ Pharmacovigilance/ EudraVigilance/ Access to data      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 55/225     VI.C.6.2.1. EudraVigilance Database Modules   Two modules are available in the EudraVigilance  database  to address the collection of reports of  suspected adverse reactions related to medicinal products for human  use, in accordance with EU  legislation:    EudraVigilance Post -Authorisation Module (EVPM) , implemented based on  the requirements  defined  in Regul ation (EC) No 726/2004   and Directi ve 2001/83/EC ; and   EudraVigilance  Clinical Trial Module (EVCTM), implemented based on the requirements defined in  Directive 20 01/20/EC .  VI.C.6.2.1.1. Adverse reaction data collect ed in the EudraVigilance Post -Author isation  Module   The adverse reaction reports collected in the EudraVigilance Post -Authorisation Module ( EVPM ) refer to  unsolicited  reports  and solicited reports which do not fall under the scope of the Clinica l Trials Directive  2001/20/EC (s ee VI.C.1 VI.C.1.2 . for ICSRs management in non-interventional studies, compassionate  and named patient use ). The ICSRs should be submitted with the value 'EVHUMAN' in the data element   ‘Message receiver identifier ’ (ICH M2 M.1.6). VI.C.1.1.)..   In line with ICH -E2B the ICSRs should be submitted to EVPM with the following value:   Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R2)   'EVHUMAN' in the data element M.1.6 ‘Message receiver identifier’  (ICH M2).   ICH-E2B(R3) )  'EVHUMAN ' in the data elements N.1.4 ‘Batch Receiver Identifier’ and ‘N.2.r.3  Message Receiver Identifier’.   Depending on their type, these ICSRs  should be classified  withbased on  one of the following options  in  line with ICH -E2B:, in accordance with the EudraVigilance Business Rules63:   Data element ‘Type of report’ ( ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.4) :   spontaneous report ;   other;   not available to sender (unknown) ; or   report from study .  In addition, w hen the value in the data element ICH -E2B(R2) A.1.4 is ‘Report from study’, the d ata  element ‘Study  type in which the re action(s)/event(s) w ere observed’ (ICH -E2B(R2) A.2.3.3)  should be  populated line with ICH-E2B:   individual patient use, e.g. compassion ate use or named -patient basis ; or   other studies, e.g. pharmacoepidemiology, pharmacoeconomics, intensive monitoring, PMS .  Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements                                                    63 Note for guidance - EudraVigilance Human - Processing of Safety Messages and Individual Case Safety Reports (ICSRs)   (EMA/H/20665/04/Final Rev. 2 ).     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 56/225     Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R2)   Data element A.1.4 ‘Type of report’ :    spontaneous report;    other;   not available to sender (unknown) ; or   report from study.    When the value of  the data element A.1.4 is ‘Report from study’, the data  element A.2 .3.3 ‘Study type in w hich the reaction(s)/event(s) w ere observed’  should be populated with:    individual patient use, e.g. compassionate use or named -patient basis ; or   other studies, e.g. pharmacoepidemiology, pharmacoeconomics, intensive  monitoring, PMSpost-authorisation study .  ICH-E2B(R3)   Data element C.1.3 ‘Type of report’ :    spontaneous report;    other;   not available to sender (unknown) ; or   report from study.    When the value of the data element C.1.3  is ‘Report from study’, the data  element C.5.4  ‘Study type  in which the reaction(s)/event(s) were observed’  should be populated with:    individual patient use, e.g. compassionate use or named -patient basis ; or   other studies, e.g. pharmacoepidemiology, pharmacoeconomics, intensive  monitoring, post-authorisation stud yPMS.   VI.C.6.2.1.2. Adverse reaction data collected in the EudraVigilance Clinical Trial Module    Only cases of suspected unexpected serious adverse reactions ( SUSARs ), related to investigational  medicinal products  (IMPs)  or non-investigational medicinal products (NIMPs)64 studied in clinical trials   which fall  under the scope of  Directive 2001/20/EC  (see VI.C.1 .),VI.C.1.1.  for ICSRs management in  clinical trials ), should be reported submitted  by the sponsor to t he EudraVigilance Clinical Trial Module  (EVCTM) . The requirements provided in chapter II of EudraLex Volume 10 of The Rules Governing  Medicinal Products in the European Union65 should be applied  with regard to the collection, verification  and presentation of adverse event/reaction reports arising from clinical trials . The ICSRs should be  submitted with the value 'EVCTMPROD' in the d ata element ‘M essage receiver identifier ’ (ICH M2  M.1.6) and  should be classified as followed , in accordance with the EudraVigilance Business Rules66:  data element ‘Type of report’ (ICH -E2B(R2) A.1.4):   report from study ; and                                                    64   For guidance on these terms, see The Rules Governing Medicinal Products in the European Union, V olume 10, Guidance  Applying to Clinical Trials, Guidance on Investigational Medicinal Products and Non -Investigational Medicinal Products  (NIMPs) (Ares(2011)300458 - 18/03/2011), and the Detailed guidance on the collection, verification and presentation of   adverse event/reaction reports arising from clinical trials on medicinal products for human use (‘CT -3’), (2011/C 172/01) .   65 EC website: European Commission/ DG Health and Food Safet y/ Public health/ Vol 10: Clinical Trials   66 See Footnote 38 .     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 57/225     data element ‘Study type in w hich the reaction(s)/event(s) w ere observed’ (ICH -E2B(R2) A.2.3.3):   clinical tr ials.  The ICSRs should be submitted to EVCTM with the following value  in line with ICH -E2B:  Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R2)   'EVCTMPROD ' in the data element M.1.6  ‘Message receiver identifier’ (ICH M2).   ICH-E2B(R3)   'EVCTMPROD ' in the data element s N.1.4 ‘Batch Receiver Identifier’ and ‘N.2.r.3  Message Receiver Identifier’.   These Depending on their type,  ICSRs submitted to EVCTM should be classified based on  one o f theas  follow sing options  in line with ICH -E2B:  Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R2)   Data element A.1.4 ‘Type of report’ :    report from study.    When the value of the data element A.1.4 is ‘Report from study’, the data  element A.2.3.3 ‘Study type  in which the reaction(s)/event(s) were observed’  should be populated with:    clinical tr ials.  ICH-E2B(R3)   Data element C.1.3 ‘Type of report’ :    report from study.    When the value of the data element C.1.3 is ‘Report from study’, the data  element C.5.4 ‘Stu dy type in which the reaction(s)/event(s) were observed’  should be populated with:    clinical tr ials.  VI.C.6.2.2. Preparation of individual case safety reports   VI.C.6.2.2.1. General principles   The content of e ach valid ICSR transmitted electronically  betwee n all stakeholders  should comply with  the legal requirements and guidelines detailed in  the Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No  520/2012  and in  VI.C.6.1 ., particularly:    the requirements provided  in Cchapter s IV and V  of the Commission Implementing Regulation (EU)  No 520/2012  of the Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 520/2012 ;   the latest version of the ICH-Endorsed Guide for MedDRA Users - MedDRA Term Selection: Points  to Consider  Document67 (see GVP Annex IV GVP Annex IV );   the EudraVigilance business rules  for the electronic transmission of ICSRs detailed  in the Note for  Guidance - EudraV igilance Human - Processing of Safety Messages and Individual Case S afety  Reports (ICSRs)  (EMA/H/20665/04/Final Rev. 2 ).and or the EU ICSR Implementation Guide   as  referred to in VI.C.6.1 ., depending o n the ICH-E2B format applied .                                                   67 For off -label, misuse , abuse  and medication error , the definitions provided in VI.A.1.2.  should be followed.      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 58/225     It is recognised that it is often difficult to obtain all the details on a specific case. Howe ver, the  complete information  (medical and administrative data) for a valid  ICSR that is available to the sender  should be reported submitted  in a struct ured mann er in the relevant ICH -E2B(R2) data elements  (see  GVP Annex IV ) (which should be repeated as necessary  when multiple  information is available ) and in  the narrative section for serious cases (see VI.C.6.2.2.4 . for gu idance on case narrative ). This applies  to all types of ICSRs, such as  reports with initial information on the case, follow -up information  and  cases highlighted for amendment68 or nullification69.   In the situation where it is evident that the sender has not  transmitted the complete information  available on the case , the receiver may request the sender to re -transmit the ICSR within 24 hours  with the complete case information in electronic format in accordance with the requirements applicable  for the electron ic reporting submission  of ICSRs. This should be seen in the light of the qualitative  signal detection and evaluation  activity , where it is important for the receiver to have all the available  information on a case to perform the medical assessment  (see VI.C.6.2.4 . for guidance  on ICSRs data  quality ).  Where the suspected adverse reaction s reported in a single  ICSR have a major impact on the known  risk-benefit balance of a the medicinal product, this should be conside red as  an emerging safety issue  and notified accordingly (see VI.C.2.2. 6. and GVP Module IX  for guidance on emerging safety issue ).,  which  should be immediately notified in writing  to the competent authorities of the Member States  where the medicinal product is authorised and to the Agency.  This is in addition to the ICSR  submission   reporting requirements detailed in VI.C.3. and VI.C.4 .. A summary of the points of  concerns and the action proposed should be recorded in the ICSR  as follows  in the data element  ‘Sender’s comments’ in (line with ICH-E2B.(R2) B.5.4). :  Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R2)   Data element B.5.4 ‘Sender’s comments’ .  ICH-E2B(R3)   Data element H.4 ‘Sender’s comments’ .  VI.C.6.2.2.2. Information on suspect, int eracting  and concomitant medicinal products   a. General guidance   Information on Tthe suspect, interacting and/ or concomitant active substances /invented name s offor  the reported med icinal products  (suspect, interacting,  concomitant ) should be provided  in accord ance  with the requirements  provided in IR Article 28 (3) (g) to (i) of the  Commission  Implementing  Regulation (EU) No 520/2012 ., ICH-E2B(R2) (see GVP Annex IV ) and Depending on the ICH E2B  format  used, the guidance detailed in the  Note for guidance – Eudra Vigilance Human – Processing of  safety messages and individual case safety reports (ICSRs)70EudraVigilance Business Rules. andand in  the EU Individual Case Safety Report ( ICSR) Implementation Guide71 (see VI.C.6.1. )should also be  followed .   The characterisation of the medicinal products as suspect, interacting or concomitant is  based on the  information provided by the primary source.  Where the notified competent authority or marketing                                                   68 See also VI.C.6.2.2.8.  on amendment of individual cases.   69 See also VI.C.6.2.2. 109. on nu llification of individual cases.   70 Ref.: EMA/H/20665/04/Final Rev. 2 ; EMA website:  Home/ Human regulatory/ Post -authorisati on/ Pharmacovigilance/  EudraVigilance/ Electronic reporting   71 Ref.: EMA/51938/2013 ; EMA website:  Home/ Human regulatory/ P ost-authorisation/ Pharmacovigilance/ EudraVigilance/  Electronic reporting      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practic es (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 59/225     authorisation holder disagrees with the primary source characterisation , this should be indicated in the  data element  ‘Sender’s comment s’ in line with ICH -E2B while respecting the reporter  description .  For combination  medicinal products, which contain more than one active substance , each active  substance needs to be reflected individually the following applies  in the data element ‘Active substance  name(s)’ ( line wwith ICH -E2B(R2) B.4.k.2.2), which needs to be repeated for each active substance  contained in the combination medicinal product. :  Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R2)   In addition to the information included in the data element B.4.k.2.1 ‘ Proprietary  medicinal product name ’, each active substance needs to be reflected  individually in the data element B.4.k.2.2 ‘Active substance name(s)’ , which  needs to should  be repeated for each active substance contained in the medicinal  product .  ICH-E2B(R3)   In addition to the information included in the mandatory data element G.k.2.2  ‘Medicinal Product Name as Reported by the Primary Source’, e ach active  substance needs to be reflected individually in the section  G.k.2.3.r. ‘Substance /  Specif ied Substance Identifier and Strength ’, which should  be repeated for each  active substance contained in the medicinal product . This applies where there is  no Medicinal Product Identifier (MPID), Pharmaceutical Product Identifier (PhPID)  or where no Substan ce/Specified Substance TermID is available as referred to in  the EU Individual Case Safety Report ( ICSR) Implementation Guide  EU ICSR  Implementation Guide72 (EMA/51938/2013 )..   b. Suspicion of  a branded/proprietary medicinal product name without  information on its  active substance (s) or its pharmaceutical form  and with different composition s  depending on the country  or on the pharmaceutical form   2.1. When the primary source reports a suspect or interacting branded/proprietary medicinal  product name without indicating the active substance (s) of the medicinal product and where  the proprietary medicinal product can be one of two or more possible generics, wh ich have a  different composition s depending on the country where the medicinal product is marketed,  the ICSR should be populated as follows  in line with ICH -E2B:   data element 'Proprieta ry medicinal product name' (ICH -E2B(R2) B.4.k.2.1) should be populated  with the proprietary/branded medicinal product name as reported by the primary source;    data element 'Active substance name(s)' (ICH -E2B(R2) B.4.k.2.2) should be completed with th e  active substance (s) that correspond (s) to the composition of the proprietary /branded medicinal  product of the country where the reaction/event occurred.   Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH- E2B(R2)   Data element B.4.k.2.1  'Proprieta ry medicinal product name' should be  populated with the proprietary/branded medicinal product n ame as reported  by the primary source .;   Data element B.4.k.2.2  'Active substance name(s)'  should be completed with  the active substance(s) that correspond(s) to the composition of the                                                   72 Ref.: EMA/51938/2013; EMA website:  Home/ Huma n regulatory/ Post -authorisation/ Pharmacovigilance/ EudraVigilance/  Electronic reporting      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 60/225     Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   proprietary/branded medicinal product of the country wher e the  reaction /event occurred.    Where there is more than one active substance contained in the medicinal  product, data element B.4.k.2.2  'Active substance name(s)'  should be  repeated accordingly.     ICH- E2B(R3)   Data element G.k.2.2 ‘Medicinal Product Name as Reported by the Primary  Source ' should be populated with the proprietary/branded medicinal product  name as reported by the primary source .;   The Ddata element G.k.2.3.r.1 ‘Substance/ Specified Substance Name ' should  be completed with the active substance(s) that corr espond(s) to the  composition of the proprietary/branded medicinal product of the country  where the reaction/event occurred.    Where there is more than one active substance contained in the medicinal  product, section G.k.2.3.r ‘Substance/ Specified Substance Identifier and  Strength ’ should be repeated accordingly.     However  if the information is available on :  the 'Identification of the country where the drug was obtained' (data  element ICH E2B(R2)  B.4.k.2.3),   the 'Authorization/application number' (data  element ICH -E2B(R2) B.4.k.4.1),   the 'Country of authorization/application' (data element ICH -E2B(R2) B.4.k.4.2) , and/or   the 'Batch/lot number' (dat a element ICH -E2B(R2) B.4.k.3),   , the composition with regard the active substance(s) of the suspected  or intera cting  proprietary medicinal product  name should be provided accordingly ., if information is also  available on  the following ICH -E2B data elements  for the reported product :  Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH- E2B(R2)   The dData element B.4.k.2.3  'Ident ification of the country where the drug was  obtained' ,   The dData element B.4.k.4.1  'Authorization/application number' ,   The dData element B.4.k.4.2  'Country of authorization/application' , and/or    The dData element B.4.k.3 'Batch/lot number'  .  ICH- E2B(R3)   The dData element G.k.2.4 ‘Identification of the Country Where the Drug Was  Obtained ’,    Data element G.k.3 .1 'Authorization/application number' ,   The dData element G.k.3.2 ‘Country of Autho risation/ Application’ , and/or    The d Data element G.k.4.r.7  'Batch/lo t number' .      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 61/225     3.2. Where the primary source reports a suspect or interacting branded/proprietary medicinal  product name without indicating the pharmaceutical form/presentation of the product and  where the proprietary/branded medicinal product can be one of two o r more possible  pharmaceutical forms/presentations, which have different composition s in a country , the  ICSR should be populated as follows  in line with ICH -E2B:   data element 'Proprieta ry medicinal product name' (ICH -E2B(R2) B.4.k.2.1) should be populated  with the medicinal product name as reported by the primary source;    data element 'Active substanc e name(s)' (ICH-E2B(R2) B.4.k.2.2) should be completed with those  active substances which are in common to all pharmaceutical forms/presentations in the country  of  authorisation.   Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH- E2B(R2)   Data element B.4.k.2.1'Proprieta ry medicinal product name' should be  populated with the proprietary/branded medicinal product name as reported  by the primary source .;   Data element B.4.k.2 .2 'Active substanc e name(s)' should be completed with  those active substances , which are in common to all pharmaceutical  forms/presentations i n the country of authorisation.    Where there is more than one active substance contained in the medicinal  product,  data element B.4.k.2.2  'Active substanc e name(s)' should be  repeated accordingly.     ICH- E2B(R3)   Data element G.k.2.2 ‘Medicinal Product Name as Reported by the Primary  Source' should be populated with the proprietary/branded medicinal product  name as r eported by the primary source .;   The d Data element G.k.2.3.r.1 ‘Substance/Specified Substance Name' should  be completed with the active substance (s) which are in common to all  pharmaceutical forms/presentations i n that correspond(s) to the composition  of the proprietary/branded medicinal product of the country of  authorisation .where the reaction/event occurred.    Where there is more than one active substance contained in the medicinal  product, section G.k.2.3.r ‘Substance/Specified Substance Identifier and  Strength’ should be repeated accordingly.     c. Reporting of Suspicion of  a therapeutic class  of medicin al products es  Where the medicinal product s cannot be described on the basis of the active substances  or the  invented name s, for example when  only the therape utic class is reported by the primary source, or  in  case of other administered therapies that cannot be structured, this information should only be  reflected in the case narrative  (data element ICH-E2B(R2) B.5.1) .. The information should not be  included  in the structured data elements ‘Proprietary related to of the medicinal product name’ (ICH - E2B(R2) B.4.k.2.1) name  and ‘Active /or the a ctive substance name(s )’ (ICH -E2B(R2) B.4.k.2.2) should  not be populated. ). The same applies if a suspected food interaction  is reported (e.g.  to grapefruit  juice).   Where  a case of  adverse reaction s is reported suspected  to be related only to a therapeutic class , it is  considered incomplete and does not qu alify for reporting submission as ICSR (see VI.B.2. for ICSRs     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 62/225     )validation) . Efforts should be made  to follow -up the case  in order to  collect the missing information  regarding the  suspected medicinal product (s ee VI.B.3 . for follow -up guidance ).  a.d. Reporting Suspicion of drug interactions    As regards For the report sing of drug interactions, which concern s drug/drug (including biological  products), drug/food, drug/device, and drug/alcohol interactions, the coding of the suspected  interaction along with  the resulting adverse reactions should be performed in the following  ICH-E2B  section ‘Reactions/Events’ (ICH-E2B(R2) B.2)  in line with the appropriate recommendation s provided in  the latest version of the ICH-Endorsed Guide for MedDRA Users - MedDRA Term Selection: Points to  Consider MedDRA Term Selection: Points to Consider  Document  (see GVP Annex IV GVP Annex IV ). )  along with any adverse reactions resulting from the suspected interaction .:  Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R 2)   Section B.2 ‘Reactions/Events’   ICH-E2B(R3)   Section E.i.1’Reaction/ Event s’   In addition, forin instances  of drug/drug interactions , information on the active su bstances /proprietary  medicinal product  name sthe following applies  for the suspected inter acting medicinal product s in line  with ICH -E2B:  1. For drug/drug interactions :  Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH- E2B(R2)   Section B.4 ‘Drug information’ should be completed with information reported  by the primary source on the active substances/propri etary medicinal  product s concerned .    Data element  B.4.k.1 ‘Char acterisation of drug role’ is to be completed  as  ‘interacting ’ for all suspected interacting medicines .  ICH- E2B(R3)   Section G.k ‘Drug(s) Information’  should be completed with information  reported by the primary source on the active substances/proprietary  medicinal product s concerned .   Data element G.k.1 ‘Characterisation of Drug Role ’ is to be completed as  ‘interacting’ for all suspected interacting medicines.   2. If an interaction is suspected w ithFor drug/  food interactions or interactions with other non - drug compounds    , The information on the suspected ‘interacting ’ medicine should be included in  ICH E2B section  ‘Drug information’  selected for the suspect medicine , however the information conce rning the  interacting food  or other non -drug compounds  should be provided   in the section ‘Drug  information’ ( ICH-E2B(R2)  B.4), which should be characterised  as interacting  in the data  element ‘Char acterisation of drug role’ (ICH -E2B(R2) B.4.k.1) .case narrative.   b.e. Reporting Suspicion of one of the excipients /adjuvants    If the primary source suspects a possible causal role of one of the excipients ingredients  (e.g., .  excipient or colouring matter, preservatives, adjuvant , stabilisers, thickeners, emulsifiers,  flavouring  and aromatic substances,  see VI.A.1.3.  for definition ) of the suspected medicinal product, this     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 63/225     information should be provided  in the section ‘Drug information’ ( line with ICH-E2B(R2) B.4 ) as a  separate entry  in addition to the information given regarding the suspected medicinal product . This   should also be specified  in the case narrative (data element ICH -E2B(R2) B.5.1) . If available, test s  results (positive or negative) in relation to  the causal  role of the suspected ingredient should be  included in the section 'Results of tests and procedures relevant to the investigation of the patient'   (ICH E2B(R2) B.3). follows:   Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R2)   In the s ection B.4 ‘Drug informat ion’: - as a separate entry  specifying the  suspected excipient /adjuvant , in addition to  the information given regarding the  suspected medicinal product. This should also be specified in the case narrative.    If available, tests results (positive or negative)  in relation to the causal role of  the suspected excipient ingredient  should be included in t he section B.3 'Results  of tests and procedures relevant to the investigation of the patient' .  ICH-E2B(R3)   In the s ection G.k ‘Drug(s) Information’ : - as a separa te entry specifying the  suspected excipient , in addition to the information given regarding the suspected  medicinal product.  This should also be specified in the case narrative.    If available, tests results (positive or negative) in relation to the causal r ole of  the suspected excipient  ingredient should be included in t he section F.r.3  ‘Results of tests and procedures relevant to the investigation of the patient Test  Result ’.  f. Additional Iinformation on Drug the medicinal product    Often, additional informatio n on the medicine(s) is provided in individual cases, which is important for  the purpose of data analysis and case review ; for example in the context of counterfeit, overdose, drug  taken by father, drug taken beyond expiry date, batch and lot tested and fo und within specifications,  batch and lot tested and found not within specifications, medication error, misuse, a buse, occupational  exposure and off label use .   The following applies iIn line with ICH -E2B, the following applies to capture this information  for the  respective suspect ed medicinal products , along with  the guidance provided :   in section VI.C.6.2.3.3 . for the provision of  information on the suspected adverse reactions  associated  to overdose, abuse, off -label use, misuse, medication error or occupational exposure,  and    in section VI C.6.2.3.5.  for the provision of information on suspected adverse reactions associated  to quality defect or falsified medicinal pr oduct :  Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R2)   As a general principle, additional characteristics related to the medicines that  cannot be structured  in one of the data elements of section B.4 ‘ Drug(s)  information ’ and which are pertinent to the c ase should be provided in free text .    Data element B.4.k.19 ‘Additional information on drug ’ should be used to specify  any additional information (e.g. , beyond expiration date, batch and lot tested  and found to be within specifications) . Additional informa tion concerning the  indication for the drug , which cannot be described in data element B.4.k.11  ‘Indication for use in the case ’ should  also be provided as applicable  in the data     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 64/225     Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   element B.4.k.19 .    Along with the resulting suspected adverse reactions, a n appropriate MedDRA  term should be provided in the data element section  B.2.i.1 ‘Reaction s/event s’ in  MedDRA terminology (Lowest Level Term)’  where applicable in line with the  latest version of the ICH-Endorsed Guide for MedDRA Users, MedDRA Term  Selection: Points to Consider ICH-Endorsed Guide for MedDRA Users, MedDRA  Term Selec tion: Points to Consider73.   Data element s ‘B.5.3 ‘Sender's diagnosis/syndrome and/or reclassification of  reaction/event’  and B.5.4 Sender's comments  can also be used to combine  reported signs and symptoms into a succinct diagnosis, or to provide the  sender ’s assessment  of the drug role , with a  reasoning included  in the data  element  B.5.4  ‘Sender's comments ’.   ICH-E2B(R3)     As a general principle, additional characteristics related to the medicines and  pertinent to the case should be coded and further infor mation provided in free  text.    Data element  G.k.10.r ‘Additional Information on Drug (coded)’ should be  completed using one or more of the following values as applicable: Counterfeit,  Overdose, Drug taken by father, Drug taken beyond expiry date, Batch and  lot  tested and found within specifications, Batch and lot tested and found not within  specifications, Medication error, Misuse, Abuse, Occupational exposure , or and  Off label use. The value(s) should be used where the primary source has made a  clear state ment related to the additional characteristics of the drug.    Along with  the resulting suspected adverse reactions , Aan appropriate MedDRA  term should be provided in the data element section  E.i.2.1b  ‘Reaction (s)/Event (s)’ (MedDRA code)’  where applicable in line with the latest  version of the ICH-Endorsed Guide for MedDRA Users, MedDRA Term Selection:  Points to Consider Guide for MedDRA Users, MedDRA Term Selection: Points to  Consider73.    Section  H.3.r ‘Sender's Diagnosis’  and data element H.4 ‘Sender's Comments’   can also be used to combine reported signs and symptoms into a suc cinct  diagnosis, or to provide the sender’s assessment of the drug role , with a  reasoning  included  in the data element H.4 ‘Sender's comments’ . If the primary  source did not provide an explicit statement about the drug characterisation  which would clearly transpose into a MedDRA term in the reaction section but  there is an indication in the context of the clinical course description, the sender  may also choose the most applicable value(s) of G.k.10.r ‘Additional Information  on Drug (coded)’ at their discret ion. The case should be followed - up to obtain  further information.     Data element G.k.11 ‘Additional Information on Drug (free text)’ should be used  to capture any additional drug information in free text format not described in  G.k.10.r , e.g. expiry date for the lot number.                                                    73 For off -label, misuse, abuse and medication error, the definitions provided in VI.A.1.2.  should be followed.      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance pra ctices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 65/225     Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   Values d Definition s for data element G.k.10.r ‘Additional Information on  Drug (coded)’ .  Note: f or overdose, off -label use, misuse, abuse, occupational  exposure, medication error, the d efinitions  provided  in VI.A.1.2.  should be applied.   Counterfeit74  This is to indicate that the medicine was  suspected or  confirmed to be a falsified  medicinal product in line with the definition  provided in Art icleicle 1, paragraph (33) of  Directive  2001/83/EC  of Directive 2001/83/EC .    Drug taken beyond expiry  date This is to indicate that the medicine  administered to or taken by the patient was  beyond its expiry date as indicated in the  SmPC product information  or on the packaging of  the medicine.    Batch and lot tested and  found within specifications  This is to indicate that a batch or lot of a  medicine was tested and found within the  specifications of the marketing authorisation.    Batch and lot tested and  found not within  specifications  This is  to indicate that a batch or lot of a  medicine was tested and found outside  the  specifications of the marketing authorisation.     Drug taken by father  This is to indicate that  suspect drug was  taken  by the father  for cases describing miscarriage,  stillbirth  or early spontaneous abortion . In this  situation only a mother report is applicable  and  the data elements in Section D ‘Patient  Characteristics ’ apply to the mother  (see  VI.C.6.2.3.1.  for guidance on the electr onic  submission  of pregnancy ICSRs ).  VI.C.6.2.2.3. Suspected adverse reaction s  In line with Article 28(3) (j) of the Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 520/2012 , Aall  available information  on the reported suspected adverse reactions  as described in  [IR Art 28  (3) (j)]  shall be provided for each individual case. Examples of relevant information include:  the start and end  date or duration, seriousness, outcome at the time of last observation, time intervals between the  suspect medicinal product admini stratio n and the start of the reactions , the original reporter’s words or  short phrase s used to describe the reaction s, the country of occurrence of the reaction s.  The coding of diagnoses and provisional diagnoses with signs and symptoms in the data elemen t  'Reaction/event in MedDRA terminology (Lowest Level Term)' (ICH-E2B(R2) B.2.i.1) should be  performed with the supported versions75 of the MedDRA dictionary used at the lowest level term ( LLT)                                                   74 This value should not be en used to refer to medicines that do not comply with EU law on intellectual and industrial  property rights, such as registered trademarks or pa tent rights, as defined for counterfeit medicines in the European  Commission Q&A: Directive on fa lsified medicines .  75 Stakeholders should follow the recommendations of MedDRA MSSO  regarding the switch to a new MedDRA version. The  latest supported MedDRA versions in line with the official semi-annual  releases are posted on the EudraVigilance web page  (EMA website: Home/ Human regulatory/ Post -authorisation/ Pharmacovigilance/ EudraVigilance ).     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 66/225     level and in line with the applicable recommendations  provided in the latest version of the ICH- Endorsed Guide for MedDRA Users, MedDRA Term Selection: Points to Consider Guide for MedDRA  Users,  MedDRA Term Selection: Points to Consider  (see GVP Annex IV GVP Annex IV ).   In practice, if a diagnosis is reported with characteristic signs and symptoms, the preferred option  is to  select a term for the diagnosis only  and to MedDRA code it  in the ICH -E2B(R2) section B.2  'Reaction(s)/event( s)'.. If no diagnosis is provided, all reported signs and symptoms should be lis ted  and MedDRA  -coded  in the ICH -E2B(R2) section B.2 'Reaction(s)/event(s)'. . If these signs and  symptoms are typically part of a diagnosis , the diagnosis can be  MedDRA  -coded  in addition  in the  ICSR by the competent authorit iesy in the Member State s or by the marketing authorisation holder s in  the ICH -E2B(R2) data element  B.5.3 ‘Sender's as part of the s ender's  diagnosis  and sender’s  comment /syndrome and/or reclassification of r eaction/ event 'event  in the ICSR .   If in the narrative other events have been reported, which are not typically signs or symptoms of the  primary source's diagnosis or provisional diagnosis, and those events are suspected to be adverse  reactions, they should  also be listed and MedDRA  coded in the ICH -E2B(R2) section B.2  'Reaction(s)/event(s)' -coded .  In case Where  a competent authority in a Member State or a marketing authorisation holder disagrees  with the diagnosis reported by the primary source, an alternati ve diagnosis can be provided  in addition   as part of the s ender's diagnosis  in the ICH-E2B(R2)  data element  B.5.3 ‘Sender's diagnosis/syndrome  and/or reclassification of reaction/event ’ in addition to the reported diagnosis  provided in the ICH - E2B(R2) secti on B.2 'Reaction(s)/event(s)' .. In this situation, a reasoning should be included in the  data element ‘Sender’s comments’ (ICH -E2B(R2) B.5.4) as additional sender’s  comment  (see  VI.C.6.2.2.4 . for guidance o n the provision  of comment s in ICSRs ).     In line with ICH -E2B the following applies:   Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R2)   Section B.2 ‘Reaction(s)/event(s) ’ should be used and completed  in line with the  EudraVigilance Business Rules76, including  the data element B.2.i.1   'Reaction/event in MedDRA terminology (Lowest Level Term)'  completed .   Section Data element  B.5.3 ‘Sender's diagnosis/syndrome and/or reclassification  of reaction/event ’ should be used where the sender w ould like  to combine  reported signs and symptoms that were reported into a succinct diagnosis .  whereby the rReasoning should be  included in the data element  B.5.4  ‘Sender's  comments ’.    Section Data element  B.5.3 ‘ Sender's diagnosis/syndrome and/or reclassification  of reaction/event ’ should also be used, if there is disagreement with the  diagnosis reported by the primary source and to provide an alternative  diagnosis. Reasoning should be included in the in the data element B.5.4  ‘Sender's comments’.   ICH-E2B(R3)   Section E.i ‘R eaction (s)/Event(s)’ should be  completed in line with the EU  Individual Case Safety Report ( ICSR) Implementation Guide77 used and ,                                                   76 Note for guidance – Eudra Vigilance Human – Processing of safety messages and individual case safety reports (ICSRs)  (EMA/H/20665/04/Final Rev. 2 ); EMA website: Home/ Human regulatory/ Post -authorisation/ Pharmacovigilance/  EudraVigilance/ Electronic reporting      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 67/225     Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   including  the data element E.i.2.1b ‘Reaction/ Event (MedDRA code) ’ completed .   Section H.3.r ‘Sender's Diagnosis ’ should be used where the  sender would like to  combine reported signs and symptoms that were reported into a succinct  diagnosis  .whereby the  rReasoning should be included in the data element H.4  ‘Sender's Comments ’.   Section H.3.r ‘Sender's Diagnosis ’ should also be used, if there  is disagreement  with the diagnosis reported by the primary source and to provide an alternative  diagnosis. Reasoning should be included in the in the data element H.4 ‘Sender's  Comments’.   In the event of death of the patient, the  date, cause of death inc luding autopsy -determined causes  shall be provided as available  [IR 28 (3) (l)]. If the death is unrelated to the reported suspected  adverse reaction (s) and is linked for example to disease progression , the seriousness criterion of the  ICSR should not be c onsidered as fatal ; tThe recommendation provided in the EudraVigilance Business  Rules EudraVigilance Business Rules76 and the EU Individual Case Safety Report ( ICSR) ICSR  Implementation Guide77 should be followed  with regard to the provision in the ICSR of information on  the patient ’s death . If the death is unrelated to the reported suspected adverse reaction(s) and is  linked for ex ample to disease progression, the seriousness criterion should not be considered as fatal.   VI.C.6.2.2.4. Case narrative , causality assessment  and comments  and causality assessment   a. Case narrative   In accordance with [IR Article 28 (3) (m) of the Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No  520/2012 ], a case narrative  (data element ICH-E2B(R2)  B.5.1)  shall be provided, where possible78, for  all cases  with the exception of non -serious cases . The information shall be presented in a logical time  sequence, in the chr onology of the patient’s experience including clinical course, therapeutic measures,  outcome and follow -up information obtained.  Any relevant autopsy or post -mortem findings shall also  be summarised .   The narrative  should be presented  in line with the reco mmendations described in chapter 5.2  ofdetailed in ICH-E2D (see GVP Annex IV ). In this aspect, Iit should serv e as a comprehensive, stand - alone “medical report” containing all known relevant clinical and related information, including patient  characteristics, therapy details, medical history, clinical course of the event (s), diagnos eis, adverse  reactions and their  outcomes, relevant laboratory evidence (including normal ranges) and any other  information that supports or refutes the suspected adverse reaction s.  (see VI.C.6.2.2.11.  for EU  guidance on languages managemen t in ICSRs for handling of languages ). With regard s to the  identifiability  of the patient , information should be provided in accordance with local data protection   laws79 (see VI.C.6.2.2.10.  for guidance on the processing of personal data in the EU ). Case narratives  should  not include information that could lead to the identification of the patient , including reference s  to healthcare professionals  or treatment centre s.                                                                                                                                                           77 Ref.: EMA/51938/2013;  EMA website: Home/ Human regulatory/ Post -authorisation/ Pharmacovigilance/ EudraVigilance/  Electronic reporting   78 ‘Where possible’ should be interpreted is usually understood  as meaning having received sufficient information from the  primary source to prepare a concise clinical summary of the individual case.   79 See VI.C.6.2.2.10.  for the processing of personal data in ICSRs in the EU .     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 68/225     An example of a standard narrative template is available  in the Report of the CIOMS Working Group  V80.   The information provided in the narrative  should be consistent with the data appropriately  reflected in  all the other relevant ICH-E2B(R2) data elements of the ICSR  (see GVP Annex IV ). . In line with ICH - E2B the following applies:   Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R2)   Section B.5 ‘Narrative case summary and further information ’ should be used  and the data element B.5.1 ‘Case narrative including clinical course, therapeutic  measures, outcome and additional relevant information ’ completed.   ICH-E2B(R3)   Section H ‘Narrative Case Summary and Further I nformation ’ should be used and  the data element  H.1 ‘Case Narrative Including Clinical Course, Therap eutic  Measures, Outcome and Additional Relevant Information’ completed .   b. During the interim arrangements (see VI.C.4.1 .), the case narratives included  in the ICSRs  submitted to the competent authorit ies in Member States  by marketing authorisation holder s,  should not be modifie d or deleted when the ICSRs are forwarded  to the EudraVigilance dat abase  by the competent authorities .  b. Comments   Where available, comments from the primary source should be provided on the diagnosis, the causality  assessment , or on other relevant issue, issues should be provided  in the data element ‘Reporter’s   comments’ ( following ICH-E2B(R2) B.5. 2).  data elements :  Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R2)   Data element B.5.2 ‘Reporter’s  comments’ .  ICH-E2B(R3)   Data element H.2 ‘Reporter's Comments ’.  The c Competent authorit y ies in a Member State s and the marketing authorisation holder s may provide  an assessment of the case and describe a disagreement with, and/or alternatives to the diagnoses  given by the primary source  (see VI.C.6.2.2.3 . for guidance on the processing of suspected adverse  reactions in ICSRs ). This should be done in the data element ‘Sender’s comments’ (ICH -E2B(R2)  B.5.4) , where discrepancies Discrepancies  or confusion s in the information  notified  by the primary  source  may also be highlighted.  Where applicable, a summary of the points of concerns and the actions  proposed should also be included in the data elem ent ‘Sender’s comments’ (ICH -E2B(R2) B.5.4) , if the  ICSRICSR whenre it leads to the notification of an emerging safety issue (see VI.C.2.2.6 . for guidance  on emerging safety issue ). The degree of suspected relat edness of each medicinal product to the  adverse reaction(s) may be indicated in the data element ‘Relatedness of drug to reaction(s)/event(s)’  (ICH-E2B(R2) B.4.k.18), which should be repeated as necessary. This also allows presenting  the  degree of relatedn ess from different sources or  with different  methods of assessment. In line with ICH - E2B this information should be provided in the following data elements:   Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements                                                    80 Council for  International Organizations of Medical Sciences (CIOMS). Current Challenges in Pharmacovigilance: Pragmatic  Approaches (CIOMS V). Geneva: CIOMS; 2001. Accessible at: http://www.cioms.ch/ .     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 69/225     Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R2)   Data element B.5.4  ‘Sender's comments ’.  ICH-E2B(R 3)  Data element H.4 ‘Sender's Comments ’.  c. Causality assessment   The degree of suspected relatedness of each medicinal product to theeach reported adverse reaction (s)  can be presented in a structured manner  in the ICSR . It can be  expressed for multiple sourc es  (reporters, competent authorities, marketing authorisation holders) may be used to  . present  the  degree of relatedness from different  sources or with different while using multiple  methods of causality  assessment.  In line with ICH -E2B th is information should be provided in th e following sections applies :  Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R2)   Section B.4.k.18 ‘Relatedness of drug to reaction(s)/event(s) ’.  should be  completed  andThe data elements  of this section should be repeated as applicable   to provide  the assessment of relatedness of  each drug -reaction pair expressed  by multiple sources  and with multiple methods  of assessment ..  ICH-E2B(R3)   Section G.k.9.i ‘Drug -reaction(s)/ Event(s) Matrix ’. should be  completed  and  The  data elements of this s ection should be repeated as applicable to provide the  assessment of relatedness of each drug -reaction pair expressed by multiple  sources  and with multiple methods of assessment. repeated as applicable .   VI.C.6.2.2.5. Test results   In accordance with the re quirements provided in Article 28(3)(k)  of the Commission Implementing  Regulation (EU) No 520/2012 , information on the r Results of tests and procedures relevant to the  investigation of the patient shall be provided [IR Art 28 (3) (k)] in the ICSR .  As descri bed in  ICH-E2B(R2)  (see GVP Annex IV ), the section B.3 'Results of tests and procedures  relevant to the investigation of the patient' should capture the  This includes  tests and procedures  performed to diagnose or confirm the reaction/event, including those  tests done to investigate  (exclude) a non -drug cause, (e.g. , serologic tests for infectious hepatitis in suspected drug -induced  hepatitis). Both positive and negative results should be reported. included in the ICSR .  The coding of investigations should be  performed in line with the latest version of the ICH-Endorsed  Guide for MedDRA Users, MedDRA Term Selection: Points to Consider Guide for MedDRA Users,  MedDRA Term Selection: Points to Consider  (see GVP Annex IV GVP Annex IV ). If it is not possible to  provide information on tests and test results in a structured manner , provisions have been made to   allow for the  transmi ssion presentation  of the information as in free text  in the data  element ICH - E2B(R2) B.3.2. 'Results of tests and procedures relevant to the investigation'. .    In line with ICH -E2B the following applies:   Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R2)     Section B.3 'Results of tests and procedures relevant to the inves tigation of the  patient'  should be completed and the data element s repeated as applicable.    Data element  B.3.1 ‘Structured information ’ should be used to structure the  information on the test, the outcome result  and unit, the date the test was     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 70/225     Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   performed , and the normal low and high range . Where several tests or  procedures were performed, the section data element  should be completed  accordingly repeated as necessary .    Data element B.3.2  'Results of tests and procedures relevant to the  investigation'  should be u sed to provide information on tests and procedures,  which cannot be captured in section data element  B.3.1 .  ICH-E2B(R3)     Section F.r ‘Results of Ttests and Pprocedures Rrelevant to the Iinvestigation of  the Ppatient ’ should be used to structure the informa tion on the date the test  was performed (data element F.r.1 ‘Test date ’), the test  (section F.r.2 ‘Test  name’ ), the outcome (section F.r.3 ‘Test result’)  and the normal low (data  element F.r.4  ‘Normal low value’ ) and normal high (data element F .r.5 ‘Normal   high value’ )and the date the test was performed . Where several tests or  procedures were performed, the section should be completed accordingly .    Data element F.r.2.1 ‘Test Name (free text) ’ should be used for the description  of a test when an appropriate MedDRA code is unavailable  for use in data  element  F.r.2.2 b ‘Test Name (MedDRA code) ’.   Data element F.r.3.4 ‘Result Unstructured Data (free text) ’ should be used when  the data elements F.r.3.1 ‘Test results  (code) ’, F.r.3. 2 ‘Test results (value /  qualifier )  and F.r.3.3 ‘Test result ( units)’ cannot be splitused, (often because a  Unified Code for Units of Measure (UCUM ) code is not available for the test unit ).    Data element s F.r.4 ‘Normal low value’ and F.r.5 ‘Normal high value’ should be  used to capture th e lowest and highest values in the normal range for the test.  The same units as used in F.r.3.3 are implied.    Data element F.r.6 ‘Comments (free text) ’ should be used to capture any  relevant comments made by the reporter about the test result.    A separate bl ock (r) should be used for each test/procedure.   VI.C.6.2.2.6. Supplementary records/ information   Key information from supplementary records should be provided in the  relevant section of the ICSR ,  and their availability should be mentioned  in the E2B sectio n ‘Additional Available Documents Held by  Sender ’ in the data element ‘List of  documents held by sender’ (ICH -E2B(R2)  A.1.8.2). . Provision ha s  been made in ICH -E2B(R3) format for the electronic submission  of documents as attachment s to the  ICSR message its elf. This option is not available in ICH-E2B(R 2) and requested documents should be  sent separately  as specified in  the request .   In line with ICH -E2B the following applies:   Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R2)   Data element Section  A.1.8 ‘Additi onal available documents held by sender ’  should be completed as applicable .     ICH-E2B(R3)   Data element C.1.6 .1 ‘Are Additional Documents Available ’ should be completed .    Section C.1.6.1.r ‘Documents Held by Sender ’ should be completed  as     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance  practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 71/225     Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   applicable , wher e the data element C.1.6.1.r.1 ‘Documents Held by Sender ’  should provide a description of the nature of documents  (e.g. clinical records,  hospital records, autopsy reports ) and C.1.6.1.r.2 ‘Included Documents ’ should  contain the actual attached document, if the sender  chooses to send the  document  or is required to do so . The processing of personal data should be  done in accordance with local data protection law  (see VI.C.6.2.2.10.  for  guidance on the processing of p ersonal data in the EU ).   Other known case identifiers relevant for the detection of duplicates should be presented  systematically  in ICSRs  in the following section  in the data element ‘Other case identifiers in previous  transmissions’ (ICH -E2B(R2) A.1.11 ).. I in line with ICH -E2B the following applies :  Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R2)   Data element Section  A.1.11  ‘Other case identifiers in previous transmissions’   should be completed . .   ICH-E2B(R3)   Section  C.1.9.1 ‘Other Ccase Iidentifiers  in Pprevious Ttransmissions ’ should b e  completed as applicable . .   VI.C.6.2.2.7. Follow -up information   In addition to the guidance general principles provided  in VI.B.3. , the following guidance should be  followed  concerning the management of follow -up information on ICSRs .:    ICSRs are sent at different times to multiple receiver s. Therefore the initial/follow -up status status  for  a report is dependent  upon the receiver. For this reason an item to capture follow -up status is not  included in the ICH-E2B(R2) data elements. . However, the data element  ‘Datedate of receipt of the  most recent information for this report’ (ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.7) report taken together with the data  element  ‘Sender identifier’ (ICH E2B(R2)  A.3.1.2)  and the data element ‘S ender’s sender’s  (case) report  unique identifier’ (ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.0.1) identifie worldwide unique case identification number and the  sender’s identifier r provide a mechanism for each receiver to identify  whether the report being  transmitted is an initial or a follow -up report. For this reason t These items are  therefore considered   critical for each transmission submission  and a precise date should always be used (i.e. day, month,  year).    In this context , tThe data element ‘Date date of receipt of the most recent information for this report’  (ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.7)  report should therefore always be updated  each time a a follow -up information is  received by a competent authority or a marketing authorisation holder , independently irrespective   whether the follow -up information received is significant enough to be reported submitted . The  worldwide unique case identification number  of the initial ICSR should be maintained and The the data  element ‘Date date the report was first received from the a source’ (ICH-E2B(R2) A.1. 6)source   reporter should remain unchanged to the date the  competent authority or the marketing authorisation  holder became aware of the  initial  report .  When an organisation  (competent authority or marketing authorisation holder ) is receiving follow -up  information on a case initially received and submitted to the EudraVigilance database by a different  organisation , the worldwide unique c ase identification number  of the initial report submitted by the  first organisation should be preserv ed in the subsequent submission s of the ICSR . In line with ICH E2B,     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 72/225     the sender’s (case)  safety  report unique identifier  and the sender’s identifier should be updated with  the new organisation’s own unique identifier s.   New follow -up information should  always be clearly identifiable in the case narrative  (required for  serious reports of suspected adverse reactions ) (data element ICH -E2B(R2) B.5.1) and should also be  provided captured  in a structured format  in the  as applicable  ICH-E2B(R2) data elements ..     In line with ICH -E2B the following applies data elements/sections should always be completed  for  follow -up ICSRs submission :  Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R2)   The following data elements should always be completed:    Data element A.1.0.1 ‘Sender’s (case) safety report unique identifier ’.   Data element A.1.6 ‘Date report was first received from source ’ (which should  remain unchanged) .   Data element A.1.7 ‘Date of receipt of the most recent information for this  report ’.    Data element A.1.10 ‘Worldw ide unique case identification number ’ (which  should remain unchanged) .   Data element A.3.1.2 ‘Sender identifier ’.    Data element B.5.1 ‘Case narrative including clinical course, therapeutic  measures, outcome and additional relevant information’ (for serious  reports of  suspected adverse reactions) .   ICH-E2B(R3)   The following data elements should always be completed:    Data element C.1.1 ‘Sender’s (case) Safety Report Unique Identifier ’.    Data element C.1.4 ‘Date Report Was First Received from Source ’ (which sh ould  remain unchanged) .   Data element C.1.5 ‘Date of Most Recent Information for t his Report ’.    Section C.1.8  ‘Worldwide Unique Case Identification ’ (which should remain  unchanged) .   Data element C.3.2  ‘Sender’s organisation’ .    Data element H.1 ‘Case narrati ve including clinical course, therapeutic measures,  outcome and additional relevan t information’ (for serious reports of suspected  adverse reactions) .  a. Significant information   Competent authorities in Member States or marketing authorisation holders  should  report submit   follow -up information ICSRs  if significant new medical information has been received. Significant  new information relates to , for example , a new suspected adverse reaction(s), reaction s, a change  in the causality assessment , and any new or up dated information on thea case that impacts on its  medical interpretation. Medical judgement should  therefore  be applied for Therefore, the  identification of significant new information requiring to be reported submitted  as follow -up ICSR   always necessitate s medical  judgement .     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 73/225     Situations where the seriousness criteria and/or the causality assessment are downgraded (e.g.  the follow -up information leads to a change of the seriousness criteria from serious to non - serious ; , or the causality assessment is change d from related to non -related) should also be   considered as significant change s and thus reported submitted as ICSR  (see VI.C.3. VI.B.7.1 . for  ICSRs reporting submission time frames) .  In addition, the competent authorit yies in a Member State s or the marketing authorisation holder s  should also report follow -up information, where submit a new version of an ICSR, when  new  administrative information is available, that could impa ct on the case management ; for. For  example , if new case identifiers have become known to the sender, which may have been used in  previous transmissions submission s (data element  ‘Other case identifiers in previous transmissions’   (ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.11) ).. This information may be specifically relevant to manage potential  duplicates. Another example refers to  data element ‘Additional available documents held by  sender ’ (ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.8) , whereby new documents that have become available to  In this  context,  the sender may following data elements/ sections should  be relevant for the medical  assessment of the case. completed in  line with ICH -E2B:  Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH- E2B(R2)   Data element Section  A.1.11  ‘Other case identifiers in previous transmissi ons’.  ICH- E2B(R3)   Section C.1.9.1 ‘Other Ccase Iidentifiers in Pprevious Ttransmissions ’.   Another example refers to additional documents held by sender, whereby new documents that  have become available to the sender may be relevant for the medical asses sment of the case.  In  this context regard , the following data elements/ sections should be completed in line with ICH -E2B  :  Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH- E2B(R2)   Section A.1.8 ‘Additional available documents held by sender ’.   ICH- E2B(R3)   Section  C.1.6 ‘Additional Available Documents Held by Sender ’.  b. Non-significant information   In contrast, a follow -up report  which contain s non-significant information  does not require to be  report edsubmitted  as ICSR . This may refer , for exa mple, to minor changes to some  dates in the  case with no implication for the evaluation  or transmission  submission  of the case , or to some  corrections of typo graphical errors  in the previous case version.  Medical judg ement should be  applied  since a change to the birth date may  constitute a significant modification  (e.g. with  implications on the age information of the patient).  Similarly, a  change of the status of a MedDRA  code/term from current to non -current , due to a version change of MedDRA , can be considered as  a non -signific ant change as long as this change has no impact on the medica l content of a case.   However, an amendment of the MedDRA coding due to a change in the interpretation of a  previously reported suspected adverse reaction may constitute a significant change and t herefore  should be reported.      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 74/225     In situations where the case is modified  without impact ing on its medical evaluation, while no new  follow -up is received (e.g.,  for correcting a mistake  or typographical error ), the date  of receipt of the  most recent informatio n reported in the data element ‘Date of receipt of the most recent in formation  for this report’ (ICH -E2B(R2) A.1.7 ) should not be changed. This data element should  however  be  updated in any other situations , to the date when new follow -up information is r eceived (independently  whether it is significant or not ) or to the date when changes are made  which impact on the  interpretation  of the case .  Where follow -up information of a case initially reported submitted  by a marketing authorisation holder  is received directly by a competent authority, the ‘Worldwide worldwide  unique c ase identification  number’ (ICH -E2B(R2) A.1.10) number   of the initial report should be mainta ined, in adherence with  ICH-E2B(R2) (see GVP Annex IV ). The same principle should be applied if a follow -up is received by a  marketing authorisation holder of a case initially reported submitted  by a competent authority.   VI.C.6.2.2.8. Amendment  Rreport   General guidance is provided in VI.B.7.3 .. Serious  and non -serious cases which have already been  submitted to EudraVigilance may need to be amended when, after an internal review or accor ding to  an expert opinion some  items have been corrected, without receipt of new information that would  warrant for the  submission of a follow -up report.    Where the amendment significantly impact s on the medical evaluation of the case, an ICSR should be  resubmitted  and information on the amendment should be explained  in the case narrative . For  example, an amendment of the MedDRA coding due to a change in the interpretation of a previously  submitted ICSR  may constitute a significant change and therefore should be sentresubmitted  as  amendment report  (see VI.C.6.2.2.7. Subsection a  and b for examples of significant and non - significant information) .   Additionally, for reports for which case s translations sh allould be provided by a marketing authorisation  holder s when  request ed by the Agency or another Member State s (see VI.C.6.2.2. 11. for EU guidance  on languages management in ICSRs ), the translations should be submitted in the form of  amendment  reports. The same would applyies where documentations  or articles mentioned in the ICSRs are  requested by the Agency or another Member State s and are further  sent as attachments  in data  element ICH E2B(R3) C.4.r.2  ‘Included documents ’ (the attachment of document is not available under   the ICH E2B(R 2) format ).  However when  nNew received information  (significant or non -significant) is received, it  should be  considered as follow -up report and not as amendment report and in this context, the guidance    provided in VI.C.6.2.2.7.  should be followed.   In line with ICH -E2B the following applies  for the submission of  amendment ICSRs :  Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R2)  The principle of amending a report as such possibility of flagging an ICSR as  amendment report  is not supported  under the  ICH-E2B(R2)  format . In situations,  wWhere the amendment of a report an ICSR  is necessary, the same principles as for  a follow -up report canshould  be applied , as follows  even where there is no receipt of   new information :.    Data element A.1.0.1 ‘Sender’s (case) Sa fety Report Unique Identifier’  should  remain  unchanged .   Data element A.1.6 ‘Date report was first received from source ’ should remain     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 75/225     Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   unchanged .   Data ele ment A.1.7 ‘Date of receipt of the most recent information for this  report’ should remain  unchanged .   Data element A.1.10  ‘Worldwide Unique Case Identification Number ’ should  remain  unchanged .   Data element A.3.1.2 ‘Sender identifier ’ should remain  unchanged .   Information on the amendment should be identifiable in the case narrative  (data  element B.5.1 ).  It should be noted that amendment ICSRs  submitted in  the ICH-E2B(R 2) format this  can lead to situation s, where these reports maywill appear as “late reports”  i.e. do  not meet the established reporting timelines  in the  compliance monitoring  performed  by the Agen cy (see VI.C.6.2.4.  for guidance  on ICSRs data quality ) if they are  submitted  beyond the 15 or 90  days submission  time frame s since the date of  receipt of the most recent information .   In situations where the case is modified  without impacting on its medical evaluation ,  while no new follow -up is received (e.g., for correcting a mistake or typographical  error), the date  of receipt of the most recent information included in the data  element A.1.7 ‘Date of receipt of t he most recent information for this report’ should  not be remain un  changed .  ICH-E2B(R3)   The d ata element C.1.11.1 ‘Report Nullification/Amendment ’ should be set to  ‘Amendment ’.   The d ata element C.1.11.2 ‘Reason for Nullification/Amendment ’ should be  compl eted to indicate the reason why a previously transmitted ICSR is  amended .   The same Data element C.1.1  ‘Sender’s (case) Safety Report Unique Identifier’  (data element C.1.1) previously submitted should be used remain unchanged .  (see exceptions in ICH ICSR Imp lementation Guide for C.1.1 ).      The same  ‘Worldwide Unique Identifier ’ (data element  C.1.8 ) previously  submitted should  be used .   Data element C.1.4 ‘Date Report Was First Received from Source ’ should remain  unchanged .   The d Data element C.1.5 ‘Date of Most R ecent Information for This Report ’  should remain unchanged .   Section C.1.8 ‘Worldwide Unique Identifier’ should  remain unchanged .   Data element C.1.11.1 ‘Report Nullification/Amendment’ should be set to  ‘Amendment’ .   Data element C.1.11.2 ‘Reason for Nullific ation/Amendment’ should be  completed to indicate the reason why a previously transmitted ICSR is amended .   Data element C.3.2 ‘Sender’s organisation’ should remain unchanged .. For     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 76/225     Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   example MedDRA coding needs to be changed following internal quality review;  in this example the date should  remain unchanged    Information on the amendment should be identifiable in the case narrative (d ata  element H.1 ).  ICSRs set as amendment  reports in the ICH-E2B(R3)  format are not considered in  the compliance monitoring performe d by the Agency . They will be however  monitored as part of the regular review of the ICSRs quality  and integrity conducted  by the Agency (see VI.C.6.2.4.  for guidance  on ICSRs data quality ). This is  to ensure  that they have not been misclassified by the sending organisation as amendment   report s instead of follow -up reports which should be taken into account in the  compliance monitoring .  VI.C.6.2.2. 9. Nullification of cases   In line with ICH-E2B (see GVP Annex IV ), the nullification of individual cases should be used to indicate  that a previously transmitted re port should be considered completely void (nullified), for example when  the whole case was found to be erroneous or in case of duplicate reports . .   The following principles should be followed:    The nullification reason should be clear and concise to explai n why this case is no longer  considered to be a valid report. For example a nullification reason stating, ‘the report no longer  meets the reporting criteria  for submission ’ or ‘report sent previously in error’ are not detailed  enough explanations ;   An indiv idual case can only be nullified by the original sending organisation ;   Once an individual case has been nullified, the case cannot be reactivated ;   Individual versions (i.e. follow -up reports) of a case cannot be nullified, only the entire individual  case t o which they refer ;   A nullified case is one that should no longer be considered for scientific evaluation.  The process of  the nullification of a case is by means of a notification by the sender to the receiver that this is no  longer a valid case. However, the case should be retained in the sender’s  and receiver’s   pharmacovigilance database  for auditing purpose s.   In line with ICH -E2B the following should be applie dapplies for nullified ICSRs submission :  Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R2)   The d ata element A.1.13 ‘Report nullification ’ should be set to “Yes” .   The d ata element A.1.13.1 ‘Reason for nullification ’ should be completed to  indicate the reason why a previously transmitted ICSR is considered completely  void.    Data element A.1.0.1 ‘Sender ’s (case) Safet y Report Unique Identifier’ should  remain  unchanged .   The same ‘Worldwide unique case identification number ’ (data element A.1.10 )  previously submitted should be used .Data element A.1.6 ‘Date report was first     Guideline on good pharmacovigil ance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 77/225     Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   received from source ’ should rema in unchanged .   The d Data element A.1.7 ‘Date of receipt of the most recent information for this  report ’ should either reflect the date when information was received that  warrants the nullification of the report or otherwise should remain unchanged ..       Data element A.1.10  ‘Worldwide unique case identification number ’ should  remain unchanged .   Data element A.1.13 ‘Report nullification ’ should be set to “Yes” .   Data element A.1.13.1 ‘Reason for nullification ’ should be completed to indicate  the reason why a pre viously transmitted ICSR is considered completely void .   Data element A.3.1.2 ‘Sender identifier ’ should remain  unchanged .  ICH-E2B(R3)   The data element C.1.11.1 ‘Report Nullification/ Amendment ’ should be set to  ‘Nullification’ .   The d ata element C.1.11.2 ‘Reason for Nullification/ Amendment ’ should be  completed to indicate the reason why a previously transmitted ICSR is  considered completely void .   The same Data element  C.1.1 ‘Sender’s (case) Safety Report Unique Identifier’  (data element C.1.1) previously subm itted should be used remain unchanged .  (see exceptions in ICH ICSR Implementation Guide for C.1.1) .      The same  ‘Worldwide Unique Identifier’ (data element  C.1.8) previously  submitted should be used .Data element C.1.4 ‘Date Report Was First Received  from Sour ce’ should remain unchanged .   The data element C.1.5 ‘“Date of Most Recent Information for This Report ’”  should either reflect the date when information was received that warrants the  nullification of the report or otherwise should remain unchanged .   Data el ement C.1.8 ‘Worldwide Unique Identifier’ should remain unchanged .   Data element C.1.11.1 ‘Report Nullification/ Amendment ’ should be set to  ‘Nullification’ .   Data element C.1.11.2 ‘Reason for Nullification/ Amendment ’ should be  completed to indicate the reaso n why a previously transmitted ICSR is  considered completely void .   Data element C.3.2 ‘Sender’s organisation’ should remain unchanged ..        Examples of scenarios for which ICSRs should be nullified  are provided  in VI.App .5.  If it becomes necessary to resubmit the case that ha s been previously nullified the following should be  considered  in line with ICH -E2B:  Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 78/225     Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R2)   A new ‘Sender’s (case) safety report unique identifier’ ( data ele ment A.1.0.1)  and a new ‘Worldwide unique case identification number’ ( data element  A.1.10)  should be assigned ..  ICH-E2B(R3)   A new ‘Sender’s (Case) Safety Report Unique Identifier’ (data element C.1.1)  and a new ‘Worldwide Unique Case Identification’ ( Section C.1.8 ) should be  assigned ..  VI.C.6.2.2.10. What to take into account for d Data privacy protection  laws   To detect, assess, understand and prevent adverse reactions and to identify , and take actions to  reduce the risks of, and increase the benefits from  medicinal products for the purpose of safeguarding  public health, the processing of personal data concerning the patient or the primary source within the  EudraVigilance database is possible while respecting EU legislation in relation to data protection  (Directive 95/46/EC , , and Regulation (EC)  No 45/2001).   Where in accordance with the applicable national legislation, the patient’s direct identifiers  information  related to personal data  cannot be transferred to the EudraVigilance database , pseudonymisatio n may  be applied by the competent authorit ies y in the Member State s and by the marketing authorisation  holder s, thereby replacing identifiable personal  data such as name and address with pseudonyms or  key codes, for example in accordance with the ISO Tech nical Specification DD  ISO/TS 25237:2008,  Health informatics – Pseudonymization  [IR Recital 17 ]. The application of pseudonymisation will  facilitate the ability of the EudraVigilance system to adequately support case processing and detect  duplicates. ThisAlternatively  where pseudonymisation is not feasible, the following may be applied  in  line with ICH -E2B:  Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R2)   In certain data element s which  can identify an individual such as in the  reporter’s name , initials , address , or in the  patient ’s name , initials , medical  record number , where the information cannot be transmitted for data protection   reasons, the data element  should be populated with  the value  ‘PRIVACY’ , in line  with the EudraVigilance business rules detaile d in the Note for guidance -  EudraVigilance Human - Processing of Safety Messages and Individual Case  Safety Reports (ICSRs)  (EMA/H/20665/04/Final Rev. 2 ).  ICH-E2B(R3)   The nullFlavornullflavor  ‘MSK’ (see VI.A.2.6. VI.A.1.8.  for definition of nullFlavor )  should  be used if personal infor mation is available but cannot be provided by the  sender due to local privacy protection legislation . It inform s the receiver that the  information does exist  without p roviding personal  detail s such as birth date or  name . See EU ICSR Implementation Guid e (EMA/51938/2013 ) for ICH-E2B(R3 )  sections/data elements where the  use of the nullFlavor ‘MSK’  is not permitted .  Pseudonym isation or t he use of the nullFlavornullflavor  ‘MSK’  should however be doneapplied  without  impairing the information flow in the EudraVigilance database and the interpretation and evaluation of  safety data relevant for the protection of public health; give n the high -level nature of the information,  data elements such as patient's age, age group and gender should in principle be kept un - redacted/visible.      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 79/225     VI.C.6.2.2. 911. Handling of languages    The ICH-E2B(R2) (see GVP Annex IV ) concept for the The electronic reporting submission  of ICSRs is  based on the fact that structured and coded information is used for data outputs of pharmacovigilance  systems (e.g. listings) and for signal detection. However, for scientific case assessment and signal  evaluation , the medi cal summary provided in the data element ‘Case narrative including clinical course,  therapeutic measures, outcome and additional relevant information’  (ICH-E2B(R2) B.5.1)  a medical  summary  is normally required  (see VI.6.2.2.4 . for guidance  on case narrative ).   Where suspected adverse reactions are reported by the primary source in narrative and textual  descriptions in an official language of the Union other than English, the original verbatim text and the  summary thereof in English shall be provided by the marketing authorisation holder81 [IR 28 (4)] . In  practice, the original verbatim text reported by the primary source in an official language of the Union  other than English should be included in the ICSR, i f it is requested by the Member State where the  reaction occurred or by the Agency.  The ICSR should be completed and submitted in English if not  otherwise  requested .  Member States may report case narratives in their official language(s). For those reports,  case  translations shall be provided when requested by the Agency or other Member States for the  evaluation of potential signals. For suspected adverse reactions originating outside the EU, English  shall be used in the ICSR  [IR 28 (4)] .   Additional documen ts held by the sender, which may be only available in a local language, should only  be translated if requested by the receiver.   In line with ICH -E2B When requested by a Member State or the Agency, the following applies  in line  with ICH -E2B for the provisio n of the original verbatim text  in an official language of the Union other  than English  for the suspected adverse reaction and the additional description of the case :  Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R2)   Data element B.5.1 ‘Case narrative incl uding clinical course, therapeutic  measures, outcome and additional relevant information ’ should be used to  capture   -  the original verbatim text for the suspected adverse reaction s,    - the reporte r’s description and comments for the case  in the original  language (if provided) ,  - and ththe English summary  of the case  thereof .  ICH-E2B(R3)   Data element E.i.1.1a ‘Reaction  / Event as reported by the primary source in  Native Language ’ should be completed with the original verbatim text for the  suspected adverse reac tions.   Data element E.i.1.1b ‘Reaction / event as reported by the primary source  language ’ should provide information on the language used in E.i.1.1a .   Data element E.i.1.2  ‘Reaction  / event as reported by the primary source for  translation ’ should provide  the translation in English of the original reporter's  words used to describe the suspected adverse reaction s.                                                   81 In practice, the original v erbatim text reported by the primary source in an official language of the Union other than  English should be included in the ICSR, if it is requested by the Member State where the reaction occurred or by the  Agency.      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 80/225     Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements    Data element H.1 ‘Case narrative including clinical course, therapeutic measures,  outcome and additional relevant information ’ should be used to provide the  English summary of the case.    Section H.5.r ‘Case Summary and Reporter’s Comments in Native Language  (repeat as necessary) ’ should be used to provide capture  the reporter’s  description and comments for the case in the original verbatim   informati on on  the clinical course of the case, therapeutic measures,  outcome and other  relevant information , as well as the reporter’s comments on the case text (if  provided) in a langua ge different from that used in sections H.1, H.2, and H.4 .    VI.C.6.2.2.10. Nullification of cases   In line with ICH-E2B(R2)  (see GVP Annex IV ), the nullification of individual cases should be used to  indicate that a previously transmitted report should be considered completely void (nullified), for  example when the whole case was fo und to be erroneous or in case of duplicate reports. It is essential  to use the same case report number s previously submitted in the data element  ‘Sender’s (case) safety  report unique identifier’  (ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.0.1)  and in the data element  ‘Worldwide uni que case  identification number’  (ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.10) .   A nullified case is one that should no longer be considered for scientific evaluation.  The process of the  nullification of a case is by means of a notification by the sender to the receiver that this i s no longer a  valid case. However, the case should be retained in the sender’s pharmacovigilance database  for  auditing purpose s.   The principles to be considered  when nullifying a case are detailed in VI. Appendix  5.  VI.C.6.2.3. Special situations   VI.C.6.2.3.1. Use of a medicinal product during pregnancy or breastfeeding   GGeneral principles eneral recommendation s provided in VI.B.6.1. should be followed .  With regard to the electronic reporting submission  of parent -child/foetus  cases, the following should be  adhered to  for the creation of ICSRs  depending on the situation . This is in addition to the  recommendations included in the latest version of the Guide for MedDRA User s, MedDRA Term  Selection: Points to Consider  for the provision  of the appropriate  reaction/event  terms  in line with ICH- E2B.:  a. The c hild/ In the situation  where If afoetus is and experiences suspected adverse  reactions  other than early spontaneous abortion/foetal demise ), information on both  the parent and the child/foetus should be provided in the same report. These cases are  referred to as pare nt-child/foetus  reports.  The information provided in the section  ‘Patients characteristics’ (ICH -E2B(R2) B.1) applies only to the child/foetus. The  characteristics concerning the parent (mother or father), who was the source of  exposure to the suspect medi cinal product should be provided in the data element ‘For a  parent -child/fetus report, information concerning the parent’ (ICH -E2B(R2) B.1.10). If  both parents are the source of the suspect drug(s) then the case should reflect the  mother’s information in t he data element ‘For a parent -child/fetus report, information  concerning the parent’ (ICH E2B(R2) B.1.10). The data element ‘Case narrative     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 81/225     including clinical course, therapeutic measures, outcome and additional relevant  information’ (ICH -E2B(R2) B.5.1) sh ould describe the entire case, including the father’s  information. :   When the child or foetus,  exposed to one or several medicinal products through the parent ,  experiences one or mo re suspected adverse reactions other than early spo ntaneous  abortion/foetal  demise, information on both the parent and the child/foetus should be provided in  the same report. This case is referred to as a parent -child/foetus  report.  The information provided  for the p atient ’s characteristics applies only to the child/foetus. The c haracteristics concerning the  mother or father, who was the source of exposure to the suspect medicinal product , should be  captured as part of the information concerning the parent. If both parents are the source of the  suspect drug(s) , the structured pare nt information in the case should reflect the mother’s  characteristics ; information regarding the father should be provided in the narrative  together with  all other relevant information .   In line with ICH -E2B the following applies:   Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) r equirements   ICH- E2B(R2)   Section B.1 ‘Patient characteristics ’ should be completed for the  child/ fetusfoetus .    Section B.1.10  ‘For a parent -child/ fetusfoetus  report, information concerning  the parent ’ should be completed for the mother or the father as ap plicable.    Data element B.5.1 ‘Case narrative including clinical course, therapeutic  measures, outcome and additional relevant information’  should be used to  provide the medical summary for the entire case and where both parents are  the source of the susp ected drug(s), the father’s characteristics should be also    reflected here.   ICH- E2B(R3)   Section D ‘ Patient C haracteristics ’ should be completed for the child/ foetus .    Section D.10 ‘For a Parent -child / Foetus Report, Information Concerning the  Parent ’ should be completed for the mother or the father as applicable.    Data element H.1 ‘Case Narrative Including Clinical Course, Therapeutic  Measures, Outcome and Additional Relevant Informatio n’ Section H.5.r ‘Case  Summary and Reporter’s Comments in Native Lang uage (repeat as necessary) ’  should be used to provide the medical summary for the entire case and where  both parents are the source of the suspected drug(s), the father’s  characteristics should be also reflected here.   b. If bBoth the parent and child/f oetus experien ce suspected adverse reactions , two :  When the parent and the exposed child/ foetus  experience suspected adverse reactions other than  early spontaneous abortion/foetal demise,  two separate reports, i.e. one for the parent (mother or  father)  and one for the child/foetus, should be created  but they . Both reports  should be linked  to  identify cases that warrant being evaluated together  by using the  following  data element  ‘Identification number of the report which is linked to this report’ ( in line with ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.12) in each report.  as followed :   Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 82/225     Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH- E2B(R2)   Section Data element  A.1.12  ‘Identification number of the report which is linked  to this report’  should be used to identify cases that warrant being evaluated   together e.g. a mother -child pair where both had reactions .  ICH- E2B(R3)   Section Data element  C.1.10.r ‘Identification Number of the Report Linked to  this Report (repeat as necessary)’  should be completed for all linked reports.  For example, if a sender wi shes to reference (link) an ICSR A to ICSR B, then  the sender populates C.1.10.r in both reports .   c. If there has been N no rea ction is affecting the child/foetus , the:   When no reaction is reported for the exposed child/foetus, t he parent -child/foetus repor t does not  apply ; i.e.. Only a parent report should be created  to describe  the child exposure to the medicinal  product .  the section ‘Patients characteristics’  (ICH-E2B(R2)  B.1) appliesthe parent’s  characteristics  The patient characteristics refer only apply to the parent  (mother or father)   who  may as we ll experience d the suspected adverse reaction s with the suspected medicinal product .  Report s with no reaction should not be submitted as ICSRs  (see VI.B.6.1.  for genera l guidance  on  the management of these reports ).   For those cases describing In line with ICH -E2B the following applies:   Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH- E2B(R2)   Section B.1 ‘Patient characteristics ’ should be completed for the mother or  father as a pplicable.    ICH- E2B(R3)   Section D ‘Patient Characteristics ’ should be completed for the mother or father  as applicable.    d. If there has been a  mMiscarriage or early spontaneous abortion  is reported , only :  When miscarriage or early spontaneous abortion is  reported, o nly a parent report is applicable ,  i.e. with the section ‘Patients characteristics’ ( ICH-E2B(R2)  B.1) apply patient ’s characteristics  to  be provided for the mother. However, if the suspect medicinal product  was taken by the father ,  the data elem ent ‘Addit ionalthis information on drug’ (ICH -E2B(R2)  B.4.k.1 9) should specify  that  the medication was taken by the father should also be recorded .  In line with ICH -E2B the following applies:   Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH- E2B(R2)   Section B.1 ‘Patient characteristics ’ should be completed for the  characteristics  of the mother.    The data element B.4.k.19  ‘Addit ional information on drug’ should be completed  if suspect drug(s) were taken by the father .    ICH- E2B(R3)   Section D ‘ Patient Characteristics ’ should be completed for the characteristics of  the mother.    Data element  G.k.10.r ‘Additional Information on Drug (coded) ’ should be  completed if the suspect drug (s) wereas taken by the father . The value to be  selected is ‘ Drug taken by father ’. Guidance o n the use of data element     Guideline on good pharmacov igilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 83/225     Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   G.k.10.r is provided in  VI.C.6.2.2.2.  Subsection f .  VI.C.6.2.3.2. Suspected adverse reaction  reports published in the scientific literature medical  literature   EU requirements  in relatio n to the monitoring of suspected adverse drug reactions  reported  in the  scientific and medical  literature medical literature  are provided in VI.C.2.2. 3..VI.C.2.2.3.1.. With regard  to the electronic reporting submission  of ICSRs published in the scientific and medical literature medical  literature , the following applies recommendation should be followed :  The literature references sh all be included  in the data eleme nt ‘Literature reference(s)’ (ICH -E2B(R2)  A.2.2) provided  in the Vancouver Convention (known as “Vancouver style”), developed by the  International Committee of Medical Journal Editors  [IR Art 28 (3) (b)]. The standard format as well as  those for special sit uations can be found in the following reference : International Committee of Medical  Journal Editors. Uniform requirements for manuscripts submitted to biomedical journals. N Engl J Me d.  1997; 336: 309 -16, which is in the Vancouver  style)]82.   In line with ICH -E2B the following applies:   Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R2)   The data element A.2.2  ‘Literature reference(s) ’ should be populated with the  literature reference. The Digital Object Identifier (DOI) for the article should be  included where available, e.g.: “International Committee of Medical Journal  Editors. Uniform requirements for manuscripts submitted to biomedical journals.  N Engl J Med 1997; 336:309 -15. doi:10.10 56/NEJM199701233360422 ”  ICH-E2B(R3)    Section C.4.r ‘Literature Reference(s) ’ should be populated with the literature  reference reflected in the d Data element C.4.r.1 ‘Literature Reference(s) ’ should  be populated with the literature reference . The Digital  Object Identifier (DOI) for  the article should be included where available e.g.: ” International Committee of  Medical Journal Editors. Uniform requirements for manuscripts submitted to  biomedical journals. N Engl J Med 1997; 336:309 -15.  doi:10.1056/NEJM199 701233360422 ”  In accordance with Article 28(3) (b) of the Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 520/2012 ,  aA comprehensive English summary of the  article  shall be provided  inas part of  the data element ‘Case   narrative including clinical course, thera peutic measures, outcome and additional relevant information’  (ICH-E2B(R2) B.5.1) information  [IR Art 28  (3) (b)]in the following .In line with ICH-E2B data  element/section the following applies :  Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R2)   Data element  B.5.1 ‘Case narrative including clinical course, therapeutic  measures, outcome and additional relevant information’  should be used to  provide the comprehensive English summary .                                                     82 The Vancouver recommendations are als o available on the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors website  http://www.icmje.org . See International Committee of Medical Journa l Editors. Uniform requirements for manuscripts  submitted to biomedical journals. N Engl J Med. 1997; 336: 309 -16.        Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 84/225     Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R3)   Section Data element  H.1 ‘Case narrative including clinical cour se, therapeutic  measures, outcome and additional relevant information ’ should be used to  provide the comprehensive English summary .   Upon request  of the Agency , for specific safety review , a full translation  in English  and a copy of the  relevant literatur e article shall be provided by the marketing authorisation holder  that transmitted the  initial report , taking into account copyright restrictions  [IR 28  (3)]. The recommendations detailed in  VI.App2.10 , regarding the mailing of the literature article , should be adhered to .  In line with ICH -E2B the following applies:   Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R2)   The recommendations guidance  detailed in VI.App2.10 , regarding the mailing of  the literature article , should be adhered to .  ICH-E2B(R3)   The electronic version of the document (i.e. the journal article and a copy of the  translation where applicable) should be attached to the ICSR in data element  C.4.r.2  ‘Included Documents ’.   If the article and/or translation are not provided at the time of the ICSR  reporting submission , attachments can be transmitted separately  from the ICSR   transmission . In this situation When the sender transmits an attach ment later ,  the original ICSR along with all the same medical information captured in the  E2B(R3) data elements isshould be  retransmitted as an ‘amendment’ report (see  VI.C.2.2.8. VI.C.6.2.2.8.  for guidance on amendment reports ). However Iif new  additional information is provided, then the ICSR with the attachment is  transmitted should be submitted  as a follow -up report .  Recommendations Guidance  presented in VI.App2.10 ,., for the reporting submission  of several   individual  cases when they are published presented  in the same literature article , should be followed .   VI.C.6.2.3.3. Suspected  adverse reactions rela ted to overdose , abuse, off-label use, misuse ,  medication error  or occupational exposure   General principles are provided detailed  in VI.B.6.3 . should be followed . Further guidance on the  management of individual re ports of off -label use is provided  in VI.C.2.2.12. .   Along with the resulting  suspected adverse reactions , If a case of  overdose , abuse, off-label use,  misuse , medication error  or occupational exposure  is rep orted with clinical consequences, t he an  appropriate MedDRA Lowest Level Term  LLT term  code, corresponding to the term closest most closely   to the description of the reported overdose, abuse,  off-label use,  misuse , medication error  or  occupational exposure  should be added specified  in the ICH-E2B section ‘Reactions/Events’ . This  should be done  in accordance with  the applicable recommendations given in the latest version of the  Guide for MedDRA Users, MedDRA Term Selection: Points to Consider , while respecting  the definitions  provided  in VI.A.1.2. to the observed  suspected adverse reaction(s) in the data element  ‘Reaction/event in MedDRA termin ology (Lowest Level Term)’ (ICH -E2B(R2) B.2.i.1 ), .   in line with recommendations included in the latest version of the ICH-Endorsed Gu ide for MedDRA  Users 'MedDRA Term Selection: Points to Consider ' (see GVP Annex IV ).  In line with ICH -E2B the following applies:      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 85/225     Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R2)   As a general principle, additional characteristics related to the medicines and  pertinent to the case should be coded and further information provided in free  text.    Data element  B.4.k.2.1 ‘Proprietary medicinal product name’ and/or B.4.k.2.2  ‘Active substance name(s)’ should be completed  in accordance with the  information  reporte d by the primary source  (see VI.C.6.2.2.2.  for guidance on  suspect, interacting and concomitant medicinal products ).   Data element B.4.k.19 ‘Additional information on drug ’ can be used to specify  any additi onal information pertinent to the case (e.g., overdose, medication  error, misuse, abuse, occupational exposure , off-label use , misuse , medication  error or  occupational exposure ). This data element can also be used to provide  aAdditional information concern ing the indication for the drug not covered in   data element B.4.k.11 ‘Indication for use in the case’ should be provided as  applicable .   Likewise, theAn appropriate MedDRA term s should be provided for the drug  characterisation in the data element B.2.i.1 ‘Reaction/event in MedDRA  terminology (Lowest Level Term) ’ along with the resulting suspected adverse  reaction . or If applicable , in the data element ‘B.5.3 ‘Sender's  diagnosis/syndrome and/or reclassification of reaction/event’  should be  completed  with a  reasoning provided  in the data element  B.5.4  ‘Sender's  comments ’ (in line with ICH-Endorsed Guide for MedDRA Users 'MedDRA Term  Selection: Points to Consider ').   If the primary source did no t provide an explicit statement about the overdose,  medication error , misuse, abuse, occupational exposure or off-label use , which  would clearly transpose into a MedDRA term in the data element B.2.i.1   ‘Reaction/event in MedDRA terminology (Lowest Level Te rm)’, but there is an  suggestion  in the context of the clinical course description, the sender  may  provide that information in the data element B.5.3 ‘Sender's diagnosis/syndrome  and/or reclassification of reaction/event’  with a  reasoning provided  in the data  element  B.5.4  ‘Sender's comments ’. The case should be followed up to obtain  further information.    ICH-E2B(R3)     As a general principle, additional characteristics related to the medicines and  pertinent to the case should be coded and further informati on provided in free  text.    In addition to the mandatory data element G.k.2.2 ‘Medicinal Product Name as  Reported by the Primary Source’ , section G.k ‘Drug(s) Information’ should be  completed  in accordance with the information  reported by the primary source   (see VI.C.6.2.2.2.  for guidance on suspect, interacting and concomitant  medicinal products ).     Data element  G.k.10.r ‘Additional Information on Drug (coded)’ should be  completed using one or more of the f ollowing values as applicable: , Ooverdose,  Mmedication error, Mmisuse, Aabuse, Ooccupational exposure , and O off label  use. The value(s) should be used where the primary source has made a clear     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 86/225     Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   statement related to the additional characteristics of the drug .    Likewise, anAn appropriate MedDRA term s should be provided for the drug  characterisation in the data element E.i.2.1b ‘Reaction/Event (MedDRA code)’   along with the resulting suspected adverse reaction . If applicable , the  Alternatively,  section H.3.r ‘Se nder's Diagnosis’ should be completed  with a  reasoning provided in the data element H.4 ‘Sender's comments’  (in line with  ICH-Endorsed Guide for MedDRA Users 'MedDRA Term Selection: Point s to  Consider ').   If the primary source did not provide an explicit statement about the overdose,  medication error, misuse, abuse, occupational exposure  or off label use , drug  characterisation  which would clearly transpose into a MedDRA term in the data  element E.i.2.1b ‘Reaction/Event (MedDRA code)’ ,the reaction section  but there  is an indication suggestion  in the context of the clinical course description, the  sender may choose the most applicable value(s) of G.k.10.r  at their discretion .  ‘Additional Info rmation on Drug (coded) ’. The case should be followed up to  obtain further information.    Data element G.k.11 ‘Additional Information on Drug (free text)’ should be used  to capture any additional drug information in free text format not described in  G.k.10.r .   The data element G.k.1 ‘Characterisation of Drug Role’ should be populated with  the value ‘Drug not administered’ for reports of medication error s ifwhere  the  patient did not receive the actual prescribed drug but another a different  one,  based on the inf ormation provided  by the primary source or, if this information is  missing, by the sender . This applies where the patient did not receive the actual  prescribed drug. There is no equivalent in ICH -E2B(R2). Sections G ‘Drug(s)  Information’ should be complete d with the information about the prescribed drug  (including the fact that it was not administered), as well as the information on  the dispensed drug as the ‘suspect’ drug.   Values d Definition s for d ata element  ‘G.k.10.r ‘Additional Information on  Drug (co ded)’    Overdose  This is to indicate that the medicine may have been  subject to an overdose as defined in VI.A.1.2. chapter  VI.A.2. 1.2.a.      Medication error  This is to indicate that the medicine may  have been  associated with a medication error as defined in  VI.A.1.2. .      Misuse  This is to indicate that the medicine may have been  associated with misuse as defined in VI.A.1.2. chapter  VI.A.2. 1.2.a.      Abuse  This is to indicate that the medicine may have been  associated with abuse as defined in VI.A.1.2. chapter  VI.A.2. 1.2.a.      Occupational  exposure  This is to indicate that the medicine may have been     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 87/225     Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   associated with occupational exposure as defined in  VI.A.1.2. chapter VI.A.2. 1.2.a.      Off label use    Medication error  This is to indicate t hat the medicine may have been  associated with off label use  as defined in  VI.A.1.2. chapter VI.A.2. 1.2.a.     This is to indicate that the medicine may have been  associated with a medication error as def ined in  chapter VI.A.2. 1.2.a.     VI.C.6.2.3.4. Lack of therapeutic efficacy   General principles  are provided  in VI.B.6.4. .  If the primary source suspects  a lack of therapeutic efficacy, the MedDRA LLT term Lowest Level Term  code, corresponding to the term closest most closely  to the description of the reported lack of  therapeutic efficacy, should be provided  specified in the ICSR in the data element ‘Reaction/event in  MedDRA terminology (Lowest Level Term)’ (ICH -E2B(R2 ) B.2.i.1 ), in lineaccordance  with the  recommendations  included  given in the latest version of the Guide  for MedDRA Users, MedDRA Term  Select ion: Points to Consider ICH-Endorsed Guide for MedDRA Users 'MedDRA Term Selection: Points to  Consider ' (see GVP Annex IV ).   In line with ICH -E2B the following applies:   Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R2)   The appropriate MedDRA term should be provided in the d ata eleme nt B.2.i.1   ‘Reaction/event in MedDRA terminology (Lowest Level Term)’ .   ICH-E2B(R3)   The appropriate MedDRA term should be provided in the data element E.i.2.1b  ‘Reaction/ Event (MedDRA code)’ .   Unless aggravation of the medical condition occurs, the indic ation for which the suspected medicinal  product was administered should not be included  in the ICH-E2B section ‘Reactions/Events’ the data  element ‘Reaction/event in MedDRA terminology (Lowest Level Term) .)’ or ‘Reaction/ Event (MedDRA  code)’ .  When the lack of therapeutic efficacy is reported with no suspected adverse reaction , The the same  reporting submission  modalities as for serious ICSRs ( see VI.C.4 . for ICSRs submission modalities in  EU) should  be applied for those cases related to  classes of  medicinal products where , as described  detailed in VI.B.6. 4.,, reports of  lack of therapeutic efficacy  for which ISCRs submission is required  (e.g. m edicinal products used in critical conditions or for the treatment of life -threatening dis eases,  vaccines, contraceptives) . The ISCRs  should be reported submitted  within a 15 -day time frame  even .  Iif no seriousness criterion  is specified available, it is acceptable to submit the ICSR within 15 days as  non-serious .  VI.C.6.2.3.5. Suspected adverse reactions related to quality defect or falsified medicinal  products   EU requirements are provided in VI.C.2.2.4.... In order to be able to clearly identify cases related to  quality defect or falsified medicinal products (see GVP Annex I ) when they are exchanged between  stakeholders, the following recommendations guidance  should be applied:      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 88/225     a. a. Quality defect   Where a report of  suspected adverse reaction s is associated with a suspected or confirmed quality  defect of a medicinal product, the MedDRA LLT term  Lowest Level Term code  of the term   corresponding most closely to the product quality issue , should be added to  the observed  suspected adverse reaction (s) in the data element ‘Reaction/event in MedDRA terminology  (Lowest Level Term)’ (ICH-E2B(R2) B .2.i.1). accordance with the  applicable recommendations  given in the latest version of the Guide for MedDRA Users, MedDRA Term Selection: Poi nts to  Consider ICH-Endorsed Guide for MedDRA Users 'MedDRA Term Selection: Points to Consider .    b.In line with ICH -E2B the following applies:   Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH- E2B(R2)   As a general principle, additional characteristics related to the medicines and  pertinent to the case should be coded and further information  related to the  quality defect provided in free text .    Data element  B.4.k.2.1 ‘Proprietary medicinal product  name’ and/or B.4.k.2.2  ‘Active substance name(s)’ should be populated in accordance with the  information  reported by the primary source  (see VI.C.6.2.2.2.  for guidance on  suspect, interacting and concomit ant medicinal products ).   Data element B.4.k.19 ‘Additional information on drug ’ should be used to  specify any additional information pertinent to the case (e.g., beyond expiration  date, batch and lot tested and found to be within /not within  specifications) .;  This data element can also be used to provide additional information concerning  the indication for the drug not covered in data element B.4.k.11 ‘Indication for  use in the case’ should be provided as applicable .   TheAn appropriate MedDRA term should be pr ovided for the drug  characterisation in the data element B.2.i.1  ‘Reaction/event in MedDRA  terminology (Lowest Level Term)’  along with the resulting suspected adverse  reaction . If applicable , the data element B.5.3 ‘Sender's diagnosis/syndrome  and/or recla ssification of reaction/event’  should be completed  with a  reasoning  provided  in the data element  B.5.4  ‘Sender's comments ’.  ICH- E2B(R3)   As a general principle, additional characteristics related to the medicines and  pertinent to the case should be coded a nd further information related to the  quality defect provided in free text .    In addition to the m andatory data element G.k.2.2 ‘Medicinal Product Name as  Reported by the Primary Source’ , section G.k ‘Drug(s) Information’ should be  completed in accordance w ith the information  reported by the primary source   (see VI.C.6.2.2.2.  for guidance on suspect, interacting and concomitant  medicinal products ).     Data element  G.k.10.r ‘Additional Information on Drug (code d)’ should be  completed using one or more of the following values  as applicable : drug taken  beyond expiry date , Bbatch and lot tested and found within specifications ;,  Bbatch and lot tested and found not within specifications . These values should  be used w here the p rimary source has made a clear  statemen t related to the     Guideline on good pharm acovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 89/225     Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   additional characteristics of the drug.    Likewise, a An appropriate MedDRA term should be provided for the drug  characterisation in the data element E.i.2.1b ‘Rea ction/ Event (MedDRA code)’   along with the resulting suspected adverse reaction . If applicable, the  Alternatively, section H.3.r ‘Sender's Diagnosis ’ should also be completed  with a   reasoning provided  in the data element  H.4 ‘Sender's comments ’.     Data element G.k.11 ‘Additional Inform ation on Drug (free text) ’ should be  used to capture any additional drug information in free text format not  described in G.k.10.r.   Values d Definition s for d ata element  ‘G.k.10.r Additional Information on  Drug (coded)’       Drug taken beyond expiry  date This is to indicate that the medicine  administered to or taken by the patient was  beyond its expiry date as indicated in the SmPC  product information or on the packaging of the  medicine.    Batch and lot tested and  found within specifications  This is to in dicate that a batch or lot of a  medicine was tested and found within the  specifications of the marketing authorisation.     Batch and lot tested and  found not within  specifications  This is to indicate that a batch or lot of a  medicine was tested and was fou nd outside  the  specifications of the marketing authorisation.   b.  Falsified medicinal products   Where a  report of  suspected adverse reaction s is associated with a suspected or confirmed  falsified83 ingredient excipient , active substance  or medicinal product , the MedDRA LLT term   Lowest Level Term code of the term corresponding most closely to  the reported information  should be added to the observed suspected adverse reaction (s) in accordance with the data  element ‘Reaction/event applicable recommendations  given in MedDRA termin ology (Lowest Level  Term)’ (ICH -E2B(R2) B.2.i.1 ).the latest version of the Guide for MedDRA Users, MedDRA Term  Selection: Point s to Consider ICH-Endorsed Guide for MedDRA Users 'MedDRA Term Selection:  Points to Consider . Information on the suspected medicinal product , active substance (s) or  excipient(s)  should b e provided  in the data elements ‘Proprietary medicinal product name’ (ICH- E2B(R2) B.4.k.2.1) and/or ‘Active substance name(s)’  (ICH-E2B(R2) B.4.k.2.2 ) as reported by the  primary source .also provided  in line with the guidance in VI.C.6.2.2.2. .   In line with ICH -E2B the following applies:   Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH- E2B(R2)   As a general principle, additional characteristics related to the medicines and  pertinent to the case should be coded and fu rther information related to the  falsified medicinal  product  provided in free text .                                                    83 As presented in EU legislation  (Directive  2011/62/EU ).     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 90/225     Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements    Data element  B.4.k.2.1 ‘Proprietary medicinal product name’ and/or B.4.k.2.2  ‘Active substance name(s)’ should be populated in accordance with the  information  reported by the primary source  (see VI.C.6.2.2.2.  for guidance on  suspect, interacting and concomitant medicinal products ).   Data element B.4.k.19 ‘Additional information on drug ’ should be used to  specify a ny addition al information  pertinent to the case  (e.g., falsified  medicine ), medicine purchased over the internet) .; This data element can also  be used to provide additional information concerning the indication for the drug  not covered in data element B.4.k.11 ‘Indic ation for use in the case’ should be  provided as applicable .    An appropriate MedDRA term should be provided for the drug characterisation  inin the data element B.2.i.1 ‘Reaction/event in MedDRA terminology (Lowest  Level Term) ’ along with the resulting suspe cted adverse reaction . orIf  applicable,  the data element ‘B.5.3 ‘Sender's diagnosis/syndrome and/or  reclassification of reaction/event’  should  be completed  with a  reasoning  provided  in the data element  B.5.4  ‘Sender's comments ’.     If new information is rec eived to confirm the product is not a counterfeit, the  data element B.4.k.19  should be changed appropriately in a follow -up. If the  product is confirmed as a counterfeit, the appropriate MedDRA code should be  used in the data element ‘ B.5.3 ‘Sender's diagn osis/syndrome and/or  reclassification of reaction/event’  with a  reasoning provided  in the data element   B.5.4  ‘Sender's comments ’ and information should be provided in the case  narrative. Data element  B.4.k.2.1 ‘Proprietary medicinal product name’ and/or  B.4.k.2.2 ‘Active substance name(s)’ as reported by the primary source  should  be populated accordingly .   ICH- E2B(R3)     As a general principle, additional characteristics related to the medicines and  pertinent to the case should be coded and further informati on related to the  falsified medicinal product provided in free text the case narrative .    In addition to the mandatory data element G.k.2.2 ‘Medicinal Product Name as  Reported by the Primary Source’, section G.k ‘Drug(s) Information’ should be  completed in a ccordance with the information reported by the primary source  (see VI.C.6.2.2.2.  for guidance on suspect, interacting and concomitant  medicinal products ).       An appropriate MedDRA term should be provided in  the data element E.i.2.1b  ‘Reaction/ Event (MedDRA code)’ . Alternatively, section H.3.r ‘Sender's  Diagnosis ’ should be completed.     Section G.k ‘Drug(s) Information’  should be completed; information should be  captured in the data element G.k.2.2 ‘Medicinal  Product Name as Reported by     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 91/225     Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   the Primary source’ and/or G.k.2.3.r.1 ‘Substance/Specified Substance name’.     Data element  G.k.10.r ‘Additional Information on Drug (coded)’ should be  completed using the following value ‘ Counterfeit ’84. The value should be use d  where the medicine is suspected or confirmed to be a falsified medicinal  product .    An appropriate MedDRA term should be provided for the drug characterisation  in the data element E.i.2.1b ‘Rea ction/ Event (MedDRA code)’  along with the  resulting suspected adverse reaction . If applicable, the section H.3.r ‘Sender's  Diagnosis ’ should be completed with a  reasoning provided  in the data element   H.4 ‘Sender's comments ’.   If new information is received to confirm the product is not a counterfeit, the  data element G.k.10.r should be changed appropriately in a follow - up. If the  product is confirmed as a counterfeit, the appropriate MedDRA code should be  used in data element the section  in H.3.r ‘Sender's Diagnosis’ with a  reasoning  provided  in the data element  H.4 ‘Sender's comments ’ and information should  be provided in the case narrative.    Data element G.k.11 ‘Additional Information on Drug (free text) ’ should be  used to capture any additional drug information in free text format not  described in G.k.10.r  (e.g. medic ine purchased over the internet ).  Values Ddefinition s for data element G.k.10.r ‘Additional Information on  Drug (coded)’    Counterfeit8485  This is to indicate that the medicine was  suspected or  confirmed to be a falsified  medicinal product in line with t he definition  provided in Art icleicle 1, paragraph (33) of  Directive 2001/83/EC.     VI.C.6.2.3.6. Suspected transmission via a medicinal product of an infectious agent   EU requirements  areGeneral guidance  on the management of this type of reports  in the EU  is provided  in VI.C.2.2.5 ..   The coding of a suspected transmission of an infectious agent via a medicinal product  in the  data  element  'Reaction/event in MedDRA terminology (Lowest Level Term)' (ICH-E2B(R2) B.2.i.1 ) should  be performed in line with the latest version of the Guide for MedDRA Users, MedDRA Term Selection:  Points to Conside rICH-Endorsed Guide for MedDRA Users 'MedDRA Term  Selection: Points to Consider '  (see GVP Annex IV )..                                                   84 This value should not been used to refer to medicines that do not comply with EU law on intellectual and industrial  property rights, such as registered trademarks or patent rights , as defined for counterfeit medicines in Q&A: Directive on  falsified medicines .  85 This value should not been used to refer to medicines that do not comply with EU law on intellectual and industrial  property rights, such as registered trademarks or patent rights , as defined for counterfeit medicines in Q&A: Directive on  falsified medicines .     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 92/225     In addition, i f the infectious agent is specified  in the report , the MedDRA Lowest Level Term code LLT  term corresponding most closely to the infectious agent should also be included  in the ICSR  in the data  element ‘Reaction/event in MedDRA termino logy (Lowest Level Term)’ (ICH -E2B(R2) B.2.i.1 )..   In line with ICH -E2B the following applie s:  Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R2)   The appropriate MedDRA term should be provided in the data element B.2.i.1   ‘Reaction/event in MedDRA terminology (Lowest Level Term)’ .   ICH-E2B(R3)   The appropriate MedDRA term should be provided in the d ata element E.i.2.1b  ‘Reaction/ Event (MedDRA code)’ .   VI.C.6.2.3.7. Report s of suspected adverse reactions originating from organised data  collection systems  and other systems   General guidance about  the management of individual safety report s ing requirem ents in the EU for  post-authorisation studies  (interventional clinical trials and non -interventional studies)  are is provided  in VI.C.1 . and . Individual case safety reports originating from those  studies shall con tain information  on study type, study name and the sponsor’s study number or study registration number [IR Art 28  (3)(c)].  This should be provided in  the following  ICH E2B  (R2) section A.2.3 ‘Study identification’.   In line with ICH -E2B the following applie s:  Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R2)   Section  A.2.3 ‘Study identification ’ should be completed accordingly .    ICH-E2B(R3)   Section C.5  ‘Study I dentification ’ should be completed accordingly .    Safety reporting Guidance concerning the managem ent of individual safety reports  requirements  regarding for patient support programmes or market research programmes are is provided in  VI.C.2.2.11 ..  All ICSRs  which are reportable to the EudraVigilance databa se and which  originate  from organised data  collection systems and other systems which do not fall  under the scope of the clini cal trials Directive  2001/20/EC  , should be submitted to EVPM (see VI.C.6.2.1 . for guidance on EudraVigilance database  modules ). The same applies to cases of adverse reactions originating from clinical trials if they are  suspected to be related to a medicinal product other than the IMP or NIMP  and do es not result from a  possible i nteraction with the IMP  or NIMP .  The following reporting submission rules for ICSRs should be applied based on (i) the type of data  collection system and (ii) whether the suspected medicinal product is part of the scope of the data  collection system.    1. For cases of  suspected adverse reactions (i) in relation to those adverse events for  which the  protocol of non -interventional post -authorisation studies does not provide  differently and requires their systematic collection  (see VI.C.1.2.1. 1.), (ii) originating  from compassionate use or named patient use conducted in Member States where the  active collection  of adverse events occurring in these programmes is required  (see  VI.C.1.2.2. ), or (iii) originating from patient support programmes , or market research  programme s (see VI.C.2.2.11. ):     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 93/225     a).  Where t he adverse reaction is suspected to be  related at least to the stu died (or supplied )  medicinal product :   the report should be considered as solicited ;    the ICH E2B(R2) data element A.1.4 'Type of report' should be populated wit h the value  'Report from study';    the ICH E2B(R2) data element A.2.3.3 'Study type in which the r eaction(s)/event(s) were  observed' should be populated with the value ‘Other studies’ or 'Individual patient use'.    in line with ICH -E2B the following applies:   Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH- E2B(R2)   Data element A.1.4 'Type of report' should be p opulated with the value  'Report from study' .    Data element A.2.3.3 'Study type in which the reaction(s)/event(s) were  observed' should be populated with the value ‘Other studies’ or 'Individual  patient use'.   ICH- E2B(R3)   Data element C.1.3 ‘Type of Rreport ' should be populated with the value  'Report from study' .    Data element C.5.4 ‘Study tType Wwhere Rreaction(s)/ Eevent(s) Wwere  oObserved ’ should be populated with the value ‘Other studies’ or 'Individual  patient use'.   b).  Where t he adverse reaction is only suspected to be related to a medicinal product which  is  not subject to the scope of the organised data collection system and  there is no interaction  with the studied (or supplied) medicinal product :   the report should be considered as spontaneous  repor t; as such it conveys the suspicion of  the primary source;    The ICH E2B(R2) data element A.1.4 'Type of report' should be populated with the value  'Spontaneous'.    in line with ICH -E2B the following applies:   Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH- E2B(R2)   Data element A.1.4 'Type of report' should be populated with the value  'Spontaneous' .   ICH- E2B(R3)   Data element C.1.3 ‘Type of Rreport ' should be populated with the value  'Spontaneous' .   2. For suspected adverse reactions (i) in relation to those specified  adverse events for  which the protocol of non -interventional post -authorisation studies provides differently  and does not require their systematic collection  (see VI.C.1.2.1. 1.), or (ii) originating   from compassionate use or named patient use  conducted in Member States where the  active collection  of adverse events occurring in these programmes is not required (see  VI.C.1.2.2. ):      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 94/225      the report should be cons idered as spontaneous  repor t; as such it conveys the suspicion of  the primary source;    the ICH E2B(R2) data element A.1.4 'Type of report' should be populated with the value  'Spontaneous'.     In line with ICH -E2B the following applies:   Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH- E2B(R2)   Data element A.1.4 'Type of report' should be populated with the value  'Spontaneous' .   ICH- E2B(R3)   Data element C.1.3 ‘Type of Rreport ' should be populated with the value  'Spontaneous' .   3. For c linical trialtrials conducted in ac cordance with Directive 2001/20/EC  and where  the adverse reaction is only suspected to be related to a non-investigational medicinal  product (other than the IMP or another medicinal product which is NIMP  and does  not  subject to the scope of the clinical tri al) and there is no result from a possible   interaction with the investigational  medicinal product :IMP or NIMP (see VI.C.1.1. ):   the report should be considered as spontaneous  repor t; as such it conveys the suspici on of  the primary source;    the ICH E2B(R2) data element A.1.4 'Type of report' should be populated with the value  'Spontaneous'.    All ICSRs  which are reportable to the EudraVigilance database  and which  originate  from post- authorisation studies  which do not fall under the scope of the clini cal trials Directive  2001/20/EC, should be submitted to EVPM (see VI.C.6.2.1 .). The same applies to  cases of   adverse reactions originating in clinical trials if they are  not suspected to be related to the  investigational medicinal product.     in line with ICH -E2B the following applies:   Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH- E2B(R2)   Data element A.1.4 'Type of report' should be populated with the value  'Spontaneous' .   ICH- E2B(R3)   Data element C.1.3 ‘Type of Rreport ' should be populated with the value  'Spontaneous' .   VI.C.6.2.3.8. Receipt  of missing minimum information   When missing minimum information (see VI.B.2 . for ICSRs va lidation ) has been obtained  about a non - valid ICSR , the following rules should be applied:    the data element ‘Date date where the  report was first received from the reporter source’ (ICH - E2B(R2) A.1.6) source  should contain reflect  the date of receipt of the i nitial non -valid ICSR;    the data element ‘Date date of receipt of the most recent information for this report’ ( ICH-E2B(R2)   A.1.7) should contain reflect  the date when all the minimum criteria the four elements of the  minimum information required for ICSR val idation reporting have become available;      Guideline on good p harmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 95/225      clarification should be provided in the case narrative (data element ICH-E2B(R2)  B.5.1) that some   of the four elements w ere missing in the initial report .;;   as for any reported submitted  cases, compliance monitoring is performed against  the data element  ‘Datedate of receipt of the most recent information for this report’ ( report .  In line with ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.7) . the following applies:   Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R2)   The dData element A.1.6  ‘Date repo rt was first received from source’ should  capture  the date of receipt of the initial non -valid ICSR ;.   DThe data element A.1.7 ‘Date of receipt of the most recent information for this  report’ should capture  the date when all the four elements of the minimum   informatio ncriteria  required for ICSR validation reporting  have become  available ;.   Clarification should be provided in the data element B.5.1  ‘Case narrative  including clinical course, therapeutic measures, outcome and additional relevant  information ’ that some of the four elements were  missing in the initial report.   ICH-E2B(R3)   The dData element C.1.4  ‘Date Report Was First Received from Source’ should  capture  the date of receipt of the initial non -valid ICSR ;.   The dData element C.1.5  ‘Date of Most Rece nt Information for This Report’   should capture  the date when all the four elements of the minimum criteria  information required for ICSR validation reporting have become available ;.   Clarification should be provided in the data element H.1 ‘Case Narrative  Including Clinical Course, Therapeutic Measures, Outcome and Additional  Relevant Information’  that some of the four elements were  missing in the initial  report.   VI.C.6.2.4. Data quality of individual case safety reports transmitted e lectronically  and  duplic ate management   The EudraVigilance database should contain all cases  of suspected adverse reactions that are  reportable according to Directive 2001/83/EC Directive 2001/83/EC  and  Regulation (EC) No  726/2004 Regulation (EC)  No 726/2004  to support pharmacovig ilance activities. This applies to all  medicinal products authorised in the EU independent  of the ir authorisation procedure.   The EudraVigilance database  should also be based on the highest internationally recognised data  quality standards.   To achieve thes e objectives, all the competent authorit yies in a Member State s and the marketing  authorisation holder s should adhere to:    the electronic reporting submission  requirements as defined in EU legislation;    the concepts of data structuring, coding and reporting submission  in line with the  EU legislation,   guidelines , standards  and principles referred to in VI.C.6.1 2.2.1..  This is a pre -requisite to maintain  a properly  functioning EudraVigilance database intended to fully  support the protection of public health .     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 96/225     In addition, the Agency in collaboration with stakeholders that submit ICSRs  to EudraVigilance , are  responsible to contribute to the quality and integrity of the data. This is also reflected in the legislation  as follow s:   The Agency shall, in collaboration with the marketing authorisation holder or with the competent  authorit y in Member State stakeholder  that submitted an ICSR to the EudraVigilance database, be  responsible for operating procedures that ensure the  highest  quality and full integrity of the  information collected in the EudraVigilance database  [REG Art 24(3)] .    This includes as well the monitoring of use of the terminologies referred to in Cchapter IV  of the   Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 520/2012 , of the Commission Implementing  Regulation (EU) No 520/2012 either systematically or by regular random evaluation  [IR Art 25(3)] .  Specific quality system procedures and processes shall be in place in order to ensure :       the submission of accurate and verifi able data on serious and non -serious suspected adverse  reactions to the Eudravigilance Eudra Vigilance database within the 15 or 90 -day time frame  [IR Art  11 (1) (c) ].;   Specific quality system procedures and processes shall be in place in order to ensure  the quality,  integrity  and completeness of the information ICSRs  submitted  on the risks of medicinal products ,  including processes to avoid duplicate submissions  [IR Art 11 (1) (d)] , which  should also be entire  and undiminished in their structure, format and  content  [IR Art 11 (1) (d) and Art 15 (1) (a)] .;   the detection of duplicates of suspected adverse reaction s reports in collaboration with the Agency  [DIR Art  107(5)  and Art 107a (3) ].   Member States shall collaborate with the Agency and the marketing auth orisation holders in the  detection of duplicates of suspected adverse reaction reports [DIR Art 107a (3) ].  In this regard To confirm  that the quality system enable s for the detection and management of  duplicate  ICSRs  and the submission to the EudraVigilance  database of ICSRs of the highest quality  within the correct time frames , the marketing authorisation holder s and the competent authorit yies in  a Member State s should have in place a n audit  system shall perform risk -based audits  of the quality  system at reg ular interval , which ensure s the high est quality of the ICSRs  transmitted electronically to  the EudraVigi lance database  within the correct time frames, and which enables the detection and  management of duplicate ICSRs  in their system . [IR Art 13(1) and Ar t 17(1) ]. Corrective action,  including  a follow -up audit of deficiencies shall be taken where necessary . The dates and results of  audits and follow -up audits shall be documented [IR Art 13 (2) and Art  17(2)] .   Those transmitted ICSRs should be complete, en tire and undiminished  in their structure, format and  content .   High level For the purpose of a systematic approach towards quality in accordance with the quality  cycle as outlined in GVP Module I , the managerial staff (i.e. staff with management responsibilities) in  any organisation should be responsible for ensuring that adequate resources are availa blemarketing  authorisation holder, the competent authorit y in Member States  and the Agency shall have sufficient  and appropriately qualified and trained personnel  for the performance of pharmacovigilance activities   [IR Art 10(1) and 14(1)] . All personnel i nvolved in the performance of pharmacovigilance activities  shall receive initial and continued training in relation to their role and responsibilities. Stakeholders   shall keep training plans and records for documenting, maintaining and developing the compe tences of  personnel based on an assessment of the  training needs and make them available for audit or  inspection  [IR Art 10 (3) and Art 14 (2)] .     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 97/225      and that appropriate training is provided  to their personnel for pharmacovigilance . Competent  authorities in M ember States  and marketing authorisation holders  should regularly update their  training plans based on an assessment of the  training needs of their personnel for pharmacovigilance ,  which should be subject to monitoring. Records for documenting and developi ng the competences of  personnel should be maintained and updated accordingly.  To support assist  the training of personnel for  pharmacovigilance , the Agency has made available a detailed training plan  and catalogue  based on a  modular training approach focusi ng on the management  of individual safety reports adverse reaction s  reporting , signal s management and EudraVigilance86. It is accessible on the EudraVigilance training  webpage87 to stakeholders who wish to use it for their pharmacovigilance activities.   In sup port of the operation of the procedures that ensure the highest quality and full integrity of the  information collected in the EudraVigilance database as well as the monitoring of use of  the  terminologies for the submission  of ICSRs , business process maps  and process descriptions in relation  to the quality review of ICSRs and the are provided  in VI.App .6..   A review of the ICSRs quality, integrity and compliance with the reporting submission  time frames will  beis performed by the Agency at regular intervals for all organisations reporting submitting ICSRs  to  the EudraVigilance database in line with the Agency’s SOPs . Parameters upon which the review of  organisations may be initiated, refer for example to the volume of reports being submitted to the  EudraVigilance  database , major changes to pharmacovigilance databases, quality issues identified as  part of the signal management, requests from pharmacovigilance inspectors , andor the time interval  since the last review.   For the purpose of the monitoring of the 15 or 90 days reporting time frames,  the Agency provides competent authorities in Member States  and marketing authorisation holders  with  monthly compliance reports.   The outcome of the review of the ICSRs quality  and integrity reviews  will be is provided to the  organisations on the basis of a report, which include s the need for corrective measures where  applicable and the time frames for these measures to be applied. The time frames and the method for  corrective measures will depend on the quality issues identified (e.g. corrections of the MedDRA coding  of ICSRs to be performed by means of amendment reports).   For the purpose of the monitoring of the compliance with the 15 or 90 days submission time frames,  the Agency also provides the competent authorit y in a Member State  and the marketing authorisation  holder  with monthly compliance reports , which apply to both initial and follow -up ICSRs. Specific rules  on the compliance monitoring for amendment reports are detailed in VI.C.6.2.2.8 ..   With regard to the monitoring by the Agency of selected medical literature for reports of suspected  adverse reactions to medicinal products containing certain active substances (see VI.C.2.2.3.1.  for EU  guidance on medical literature  monitoring ), and the entering of adverse reaction reports these reports   in the EudraVigilance database in accordance with Art icleicle 27 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004  of  Regulation (EC) 726/2004 , two-yearly audits are planned to ensure the quality and integrity of the  reports. SOPs and WINs for the routine quality review process are published aton the Agency’s  dedicated medical literature monitoring webpage .88.  In support o f the operation of procedures that ensure detection and management of duplicate ICSRs   are provided  in VI. Appendix  6 and VI. Appendix  7. Further guidance , business pro cess maps and  process descriptions are provided in VI.App .7. taking into account various scenarios acknowledging                                                   86 Accessible on EudraVigilance training webpage .   87 EudraVigilance training and support ; EMA website: Home/ Human regulator y/ Post -authorisation/ Pharmacovigilance/  EudraVigilance/ EudraVigilance training   88 Monitoring of medical literature and entry of adverse reaction reports into EudraVigilance ; EMA website: Home/ Human  regulatory/ Post -authorisation/ Pharmacovigilance/ Medical literature monitoring )       Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 98/225     that duplicates may be detected at various stages of the processing of ICSRs by numerous  stakeho lders and in EudraVigilance . The collaboration between the Agency, the competent authorit iesy  in a Member State s and the marketing authorisation holder s is required to ensure that potential  duplicates of reports of suspected adverse reactions are reviewed,  confirmed and processed as  necessary. Guidance  on the detection of duplicate ICSRs is available also provided  in the GVP Module VI  Addendum I – Duplicate management of adverse reaction reports Guideline on the Detection and  Management of Duplicate Individual Cases and Individual Case Safety Reports (ICSRs)   (EMA/13432/2009 ).  A review  of the ICSRs quality , integrity  and compliance with the reporting time frames  will be  performed by the Agency at regular intervals for all orga nisations reporting  to the EudraVigilance  database. Feedback from these reviews will be provided to those organisations.   VI.C.6.2.5. Electronic re-transmission of ICSRs  between multiple senders and receivers   The electronic re -transmission of cases refers t o the electronic exchange  of ICSRs between multiple  senders and receivers, for example  where in case of contractual agreement, a third country ICSR is  first reported submitted  by a marketing authorisation holder  outside the EU to another marketing  authorisa tion holder in the EU and from there  to the Agency.  This applies as well for the interim  arrangements period, where b ased on the reporting requirements detailed in VI.C.4.1 ., ICSRs  originating in the EU are subm itted by marketing authorisation holders to the competent authorities in  the Member State where the reaction occurred and then re-transmitted to the EudraVigilance  database .   During this re -transmission process, information on the case should not in princi ple be omitted or  changed if no new information on the case is available to the re -transmitting sender.  Exceptions apply  to the following  ICH-E2B data elements  or sections :  Exceptions apply to  the following  data elements  or sections :   ‘Sender’s (case) safet y report unique identifier’ ( ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.0.1);    ‘Date of this transmission’ ( ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.3);    ‘Date report was first received from source’ ( ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.6) , for initial reports;    ‘Date of receipt of the most recent information for this report’ ( ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.7);    ‘Information on sender and receiver of case safety report’  (ICH-E2B(R2)  A.3);   ‘Relatedness of drug to reaction(s)/event(s) ’ (ICH-E2B(R2)  B.4.k.18) ;   ‘Sender's diagnosis/syndrome and/or reclassification of reaction/event ’ (ICH-E2B(R2)  B.5.3) ;   ‘Sender’s comments ’ (ICH-E2B(R2)  B.5.4).   Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R2)   Data element A.1.0.1 ‘Sender’s (case) safety report unique identifier’ .;   Data element A.1.3 ‘Date of this transmission’ .;   Data element A.1.6 ‘Date report was first  received from source’, for initial  reports .;   Data element A.1.7 ‘Date of receipt of the most recent information for this  report’ .;     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 99/225     Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements    Data element Section  A.3 ‘Information on sender and receiver of case safety  report’ .;    Data element Section  B.4.k.18 ‘Relatedn ess of drug to reaction(s)/event(s)’ .;   Data element B.5.3 ‘Sender's diagnosis/syndrome and/or reclassification of  reaction/event’ .;   Data element B.5.4  ‘Sender’s comments’ .  ICH-E2B(R3)  guideline   Data element C.1.1 ‘Sender’s (case) Safety Report Unique Iden tifier’.;   Data element C.1.2  ‘Date of creation ’.   Data element C.1.4 ‘Date Report Was First Received from Source , for initial  reports ’.;   Data element C.1.5 ‘Date of Most Recent Information for This Report ’.   Section C.3 ‘ Information on Sender of Case Safety Report ’.;   Data element Section  G.k.9.i.2 .r ‘Assessment of Relatedness of Drug to  Reaction(s)/Event(s) ’.;   Data element Section  H.3.r ‘Sender's Diagnosis (MedDRA code)’ .;   Data element H.4 ‘Sender's Comments ’..  In the interest of improving data quality, in cas e of errors or inconsistencies in the report, the re - transmitters should go back to the originator of the report to correct the case accordingly. However, if  this cannot be done within normal reporting submission time frame s, the re -transmitter can correct   information that has been incorrectly structured.   In addition, any electronic data interchange  partner should adhere to the ICH-E2B(R2) rules regarding  the provision of follow -up information,  whereby  the ‘Worldwide unique case identification number’  (ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.10) should be maintained in accordance with the ICH-E2B(R2)  guideline  (see GVP  Annex IV ).principles set out in VI.C.6.2.2.7 .. Non-adherence to these administrative requirements  endangers the electronic case manage ment and  leads to the potential for unnecessary duplication of  reports in the receiver’s database .   VI.C.6.2.6. Electronic reporting submission  of ICSRs through company’s the headquarter  of  a marketing authorisation holder s  If a pharmaceutical company marketing authorisation holder  decides to centralise the electronic  reporting submission  of ICSRs (e.g. by reporting submitting  through the company’s global or EU  headquarter), the following should be taken into account:    the central  reporting submitting  arrangement should be clearly specified in the marketing  authorisation holder ’s pharmacovigilance system master  file and in the interna l standard operating  procedures;    the company’s headquarter  designated for reporting submitting  the ICSRs should be  registered  with EudraVigilance ;.   theThe same principles may be applied  for reporting ICSRs from the competent authori ties in  Member States to the marketing authorisation holder s during the interim arrangement s period ,     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 100/225     that is  the competent a uthorities in Member States report electronically to  the company’s  headquarter  instead of to the local affiliate s.  VI.C.6.3. Electro nic submission of information on medicinal products   To support the objectives of Directive 2001/83/EC and Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, the  provisions   provided in second sub -paragraph of Art icleicle 57(2)  of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004  of Regulation  (EC) No 726/2004 , regarding  the electronic submission  and update of information on medicinal  products for human use authorised or registered in the EU , shall be followed by the marketing  authorisation holder s. In this aspect With regard to this,  the marketing auth orisation holder s shall apply  the internationally agreed formats and terminologies described in Cchapter IV of the Commission  Implementing Regulation (EU) No 520/2012  of the Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No  520/2012 . Recommendations Guidance  related to the electronic submission of information on medicines   areis provided on the Agency’s website89.                                                   89 EMA website:  Home/ Human regulatory/ Post -authorisation/ Data submission on medicines (Article 57)/ Reporting  requirements for authorised medicin es/ Guidance documents   See EMA documents for electronic submission of information on medicines :  http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=pages/regulation/document_listing/document_listing_000336.jsp&murl=m enus/regulations/regulations.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac0580410138&jsenabled=true      Guideline on  good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 101/225     VI. Appendix 1 Process for f Identification Follow -up process   of biological medicinal  product sICSRs     VI.App .1.1 Follow -up of ICSRs by competent authorities  in Member States  and marketing authorisation holders     Business process map - Follow -up of ICSRs by compet ent authorities in Member State s (NCAs) and  marketing authorisation holders  (MAHs) . See steps description in Table VI.2.   Figure VI.1.       Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 102/225      Valid  ICSR? Follow-up required? Record  outcome of  follow-up  Submit  follow-up  ICSR to EV EudraVigilanceRequest  info from  reporter Submit  initial  ICSR to EV YesNo Record  outcome of  follow-up  NoYesICSR is not  valid Request  missing info  from  reporter Info  obtained? Submit ICSR  to EVNoADR  Report YesIs new info  significant?End Valid ICSR? Yes ICSR Message  DeliveryICSR Message  DeliveryStart Start  ADR  Report ReporterCreate and  record ICSRReporter Record  outcome of  follow-up Info  obtained? No2.13 3.1 3.2 7 4.1 4.2 5.1 5.2 6.18 13 11.1 11.29 14 12.110 10.1 10.2 YesNo EndNCA MAH NoICSR is valid Follow-up is  required4 Follow-up  info is  obtainedAdditional  info is  obtained5 11No info is  obtained 13.1 8.1YesFollow-up is  not  required 7.1 New info is   significantICSR is valid 126ICSR is not  validNew info is  not  significant13.2 8..2 14.1 9.1 ICSR Message  DeliveryEnd2 1 1 Yes End 6.2 12.2     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 103/225     Table VI.2.  Process description - Follow -up of ICSRs by competent authorities in Member State s  (NCAs) and  marketing authorisation holders  (MAHs) . See process map in Fig ure VI.2.  No Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation   1 Start .    Receipt by the NCA or the MAH of a report of a  suspected adverse reaction related to a  medicin e al product (ADR report) . Go to step 2.   NCA/MAH   1 Receive report of  suspected drug  adverse reaction (s)  from primary source  Day 0.   Receipt of the information   MAH  2 Create and record  ICSR.  Create an individual case safety report (ICSR ) and  record it in the pharmacovigilance database. Go to  step 2.1  NCA/MAH   2.1 Is the report ICSR  valid?  Is the report received from the primary  source reporter  a valid ICSR in accorda nce with  VI.B.2 ..?  If Yes, go to step 3.   If No, go to step 10.  NCA/MAH MAH  3 The report r eceived  ICSR is valid .  The report received from the reporter primary source   is a valid ICSR  in accordance with chapter . The clock   start (D0) for the submission  of the valid ICSR is the  date of rec eipt of the report  (see VI.B.7.  for day zero  definition ). Go to step 3.1. VI.B.2    NCA/MAH   3.1 Record the report   Record the valid ADR report received  from the  primary source  in the  pharmacovigilance database  MAH  3.21 Report Submit  initial  ICSR to  EudraVigilance (EV). Report Submit  the initial  valid ICSR (EEA and non -EEA  serious and E EA non-serious) to EudraVigilance (EV)  within the relevant time frame s (15 or 90 days, as  applicable) in accordance with the principles set out in  chapter . Non-serious non -EEA ICSRs should not be  submitted to EV.   Go to step 6.2 for the end of the process for  this  ICSR.   Go to step 3.2  for follow -up activity .2  NOTE: NCA/MAH the MAH  can organise the  reporting submission  of the initial report and the  follow -up report in accordance with the  reporting appropriate timelines frames .  set out in the  pharmacovigilance legislation i.e. iIf time permits and  the follow -up information can be obtained and NCA/MAH MAH     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 104/225     No Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation   processed within t he initial reporting submission  time  frame s, the MAHNCA/MAH  is not required to  report submit  the initial and the follow -up report  separately .  3.32 Is follow -up  required ? for the  valid ICSR?  Is follow -up with the reporter required for the valid  ICSR?  If Yes, go to step 4 .  If No, go to step 97. NCA/MAH MAH  4 Follow -up is  required . for valid  ICSR The ICSR is valid.  Follow -up is necessary to obtain  significant missing information for the evaluation of  the ICSR.  This incl udes information  on the patient   age or age group if missing , or the mandatory   information on the  medicinal product batch number  when it is missing and the reaction is suspected to be  related to a biological medicinal product  [DIR Art  102(e) and IR Art 28 (3)] . With respect to this, it i s  recommended to specify in the case narrative if  information on the batch number has been  requested, when it is missing in the initially  submitted ICSR.  Go to step 4.1.  NCA/MAH   4.1 Request  information  from  reporter primary  source .  Contact the reporter primary source  to obtain  additional information pertinent to the valid case in  accordance with the principles set out in chapter s   and to obtain additional information pertinent to the  valid case . (see follow -up guidance in VI.B.3.  and  VI.C.6.2.2.7. ). Go to step 4.2.   Note: MAHs Stakeholders  should define in their SOPs  how many attempts to contact the  reporter should be  made  until the to obtain follow -up informati on is  obtained  (or the follow -up attempts can be  ceased ).are made  NCA/MAH MAH  4.2 Is follow -up  information  obtained? Has new  information on the  case be  obtained  from the primary  source ? Has follow -up information be en obtained from the  reporter  on the ICSR ?  If Yes, go to pointstep 5.   If No, go to pointstep 8.  NCA/MAH MAH  5 Additional  information has  been obtained . Additional follow -up information has been obtained   from the reporter . Go to step 5.1. NCA/MAH MAH     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 105/225     No Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation   5.1 Record outcome of  follow -up.  Record t he outcome of the follow -up and record  follow -up information obtained in the  pharmacovigilance  database  . Go to step 5.2.  NCA/MAH MAH  5.2 Is new information  significant  and  reportable ? Determine if  the new  obtained  information  obtained   is significant enough to be submitted  in accordance  with (see VI.C.6.2.2.7.  Subsection a  for examples of  significant and non -significant information ) to be  submitted to EV.   If Yes, go to pointstep 6.   If No, go to pointstep 79.  NCA/MAH MAH  6 New information is  significant . and  reportable  The n ew follow -up information is significant  enough  to be submitted to EV. Go to step 6.1.  NCA/MAH   6.1 Report Submit   follow -up ICSR to  EudraVigilance EV. Submit  the follow -up ICSR (EEA and non -EEA serio us  and EEA non -serious) with the new information to EV  within the relevant time frames (15 or 90 days, as  applicable) . Non-serious non -EEA ICSRs should not  be submitted to EV. Report  the ICSR with the follow - up information to EudraVigilance  in accordance w ith  VI.C.6. Go to step 6.2 . NCA/MAH MAH  6.2 End. The ICSR is stored in EV for signal detec tion and data  quality analyses  following recoding and duplicate  detection ( see VI.App.6  for ICSRs data quality  monitoring  in EV, a nd VI.App.7  for duplicate  detection and management ). It is also available for  rerouting to the relevant NCA (See VI.App.3 .4), and  for access to MAHs to fulfil th eir pharmacovigilance  activitie s. Go back to step 1 on the receipt  of a new  information  for the ICSR.  NCA/MAH   7 Follow -up is not  required.  ICSR is valid. Follow -up may be performed as  necessary to obtain administrative information not  required for the scien tific evaluation of the ICSR. Go  to step 7.1. NCA/MAH   7.1  End.  End of the process for this ICSR.  Go back to step 1  on the receipt  of a new information for the ICSR.  NCA/MAH   7 New information is  not significant  and  not reportable  The new information is not significant enough to be  sent in accordance with VI.C.6.2.2.7.     7.1 End  MAH  8 No information has   been obtained . The follow -up with the reporter primary source  is NCA/MAH      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 106/225     No Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation   unsuccessful and no additional information on the  caseICSR can be obtained . Go to step 8.1.  8.1 Record the outcome  of follow -up. Record the fact that no further information has been  obtained fr om the reporter primary source . Go to step  8.2. in the pharmacovigilance  database  NCA/MAH MAH  8.2 End.  End of the process for this ICSR.  Go back to step 1  on the receipt of a new information for the ICSR.   Note: when the suspected medicinal product is a  biological product and the batch number information  is not available in the initial ly submitted  ICSR, a   follow -up (or amendment)  report should be  submitted  when no information  is received on the  missing batch number despite c ontact  attempt s with  the reporter (see step 4 ). This should be specified in  the narrative and with the nullFlavor ASKU where  applicable  under ICH -E2B(R3)  format . NCA/MAH   9 Follow-up is not  required for valid  ICSR ICSR is valid. Follow -up is not performed  MAH  9.1  End     9 New information is  not significant.  The new follow -up information is not significant  enough to be submitted to EV. Go to step 9.1.  NCA/MAH   9.1 End. End o f the process for this ICSR.  Go back to step 1  on the receipt of a new information for the ICSR.  NCA/MAH   10  ICSR is not valid. The  report received from  the primary source   is NOT a valid ICSR   The report received from the reporter  is NOT a valid  ICSR The report  received  is not a valid report  in  accordance with   VI.B.2. . Go to step 10.1. VI.B.2.  NCA/MAH   10.1 Record non -valid  ICSR Record the non -valid ICSR in pharmacovigilance  database   MAH  10.2 1 Request missing info  from  reporter .primary  source  Request  the missing information for the non-valid  ICSR from the reporter primary source  through  follow -up in line with (see guidance in  VI.B.3.  and  VI.C.6.2.2.7. ). Go to step 10.2. VI.B.3.  and  VI.C.6.2.2.7.  NCA/MAH MAH  10.3 2 Is follow -up Missing  information  has  been obtained?  HasIs follow -upmissing  information obeen o btained  from the reporter for non -valid ICSR? ?  If Yes, go to 1 1.  If No, go to 1 43. NCA/MAH MAH  11 Missing Follow -up  information  has  been obtained . for Follow-up information has been obtained for the non- valid ICSR . Go to step 11.1.  NCA/MAH MAH     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 107/225     No Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation   non-valid ICSR   11.1 Record the outcome  of follow -up with  reporter .primary  source  Record the outcome of the follow -up ofnew follow -up   missing  information in the pharmacovigilance   database . Go to step 11.2.  NCA/MAH MAH  11.2 Is the ICSR valid?  Is the report ICSR with the new  follow -up information   now valid in accordance with  the gui dance in  VI.B.2. .  taking into account  the follow -up information  obtained from the primary source ?  If Yes, go to 12.   If No, go to 1 34. NCA/MAH MAH  12 ICSR is valid . The ICSR is now  valid taking into account  the new  information obtained from the reporter . The clock   start (D0) for the submission  of the valid ICSR is the  date of rece ipt of the new information  (see VI.B.7.   for guidance on day zero ).   Go to step 12.1. NCA/MAH   12.1 Report Submit  ICSR  to EV.EudraVgilanc e  Report  the valid ICSR to EudraVigilance  in line with  the principles set out in   VI.C.6 Submit  the ICSR (EEA  and non -EEA serious and EEA non -serious) with the  new information to EV within the relevant time  frames (15 or 90 days, as applicable) .   Non-serious non -EEA ICSRs should not be submitted  to EV. Go to step 12.2. . NCA/MAH MAH  12.2 End. The ICSR is stored in EV for signal detection and data  quality analyses following recoding and duplicate  detection (see VI.App.6  for ICSRs data quality  monitoring  in EV, and VI.App.7  for duplicate  detection and management) . It is also available for  rerouting to the relevant NCA (See VI.App.3 .4), and  for access to MAHs to fulfil their pharmacovigilance  activities. Go back to step 1 on the receipt  of a new  information for the ICSR.  NCA/MAH   13  No information is  obtained for non - valid ICSR. No further information is obtained from the reporter   for the non -valid ICSR. Go to step 13.1  NCA/MAH   13.1  Record outcome of  the follow -up. Record the fact that no further information has been  obtained from the reporter  for the non -valid ICSR .  Go to step 13.2.  NCA/MAH   13.2 End. End of the process for this non-valid ICSR. It should  be considered  as applicable in  the safety evaluation NCA/MAH      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 108/225     No Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation   activities . Go back to step 1 on the receipt of a new  information.   134 ICSR is not valid .  The ICSR remains non -valid despite the new follow - up informa tion received from t he reporter.  Go to step  14.1. NCA/MAH MAH  134. 1 End. End of the process for this non-valid ICSR.  It should  be considered as applicable in  the safety evaluation  activities . Go back to step 1 on the receipt of a new  information.  NCA/MAH   14  Missing informat ion has  not been obtained for  non-valid ICSR  No further information is obtained fr om the  primary source  in the pharmacovigilance   database    14.1  Record the outcome of the  follow -up Record the fact that no further information  has been obtained from the primary source  in  the pharmacovigilance database  MAH  14.2 End       Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 109/225      VI.App.1.2 Follow -up of ICSRs by competent authorities in Member  States  involving consumers or healthcare professionals    Business process map - Follow -up of ICSRs by competent authorities in Mem ber States involving  consumers or healthcare professionals         Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 110/225     Process description - Follow -up of ICSRs by competent authorities in Member States involving  consumers or healthcare professionals   No Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation    Start    Receipt of a report of a suspected  adverse reaction related to a medicine  (ADR report)    1 Receive report of  suspected drug adverse  reaction(s) from primary  source  Day 0.   Receipt of the information  NCA  2 Is the report valid?  Is the report received from the primary  source a valid ICSR in accordance with  chapter VI.B.2?   If Yes, go to step 3.   If No, go to step 10.  NCA  3 The report received is  valid  The report received from the primary source  is a valid ICSR in accordance with chapter  VI.B.2      3.1 Record the report  Record the valid ADR report received from  the primary source in the pharmacovigilance  database  NCA  3.2 Report ICSR to  EudraVigilance (EV)  Report  the valid ICSR to EudraVigilance in  accordance with the principles set out in   VI.C.6.2 .  NOTE: the NCA can organise the reporting  of  the initial report and the follow -up report in  accordance with the reporting timelines set  out in the pharmacovigilance legislation i.e. if  time permits and follow -up information can  be obtained and pr ocessed within the initial  reporting  timeframe s, the MAH is not  required to report  the initial and the follow - up report separately  NCA  3.3 Is follow -up required for  the valid ICSR?  If Yes, go to step 4   If No, go to step 9  NCA  4 Follow -up required for  valid ICSR        Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 111/225     No Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation   4.1 Request information from  primary source  Contact the primary source to obtain  additional information pertinent to the valid  case in accordance with the principles set out  in VI.B.3 . and VI.C.6.2.2.7 .  Note: NCAs should define in their SOPs ho w  many attempts to obtain follow -up  information are made  NCA  4.2 Has new information on  the case be obtained from  the primary source?  If Yes, go to point 5.   If No, go to point 8.  NCA  5 Additional information has  been obtained   NCA  5.1 Record outcome o f follow - up  Record the outcome of the follow -up and  record information obtained in the  pharmacovigilance database  NCA  5.2 Is new information  significant  and reportable ? Determine if information obtained is  significant enough to be  reportable  in  accordan ce with VI.C.6.2.2.7 .  If Yes, go to point 6.   If No, go to point 7.  NCA  6 New information is  significant and reportable   NCA  6.1 Report  ICSR to  EudraVigilance  Report  the ICSR with the follow -up  information to EudraVigilance in accordance  with VI.C.6 . NCA  7 New information is not  significant  and not  reportable  The new information is not reportable  in  accordance with VI.B.3 . and VI.C.6.2.2.7 .    7.1 End  NCA  8 No information has been  obtained  The follow -up with the primary source is  unsuccessful and no additional information on  the case can be obtained    8.1 Record the outcome of  follow -up Record the fact that no further information  has been obtained from the primary source in  the pharmacovigilance database  NCA     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 112/225     No Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation   8.2 End     9 Follow -up is not required  for valid ICSR  ICSR is valid. Follow -up is not  performed  NCA  9.1 End     10  The report received from  the primary source is NOT  a valid ICSR  The report received is not a valid report in  accordance with VI.B.2 .   10.1 Record non -valid ICSR  Record the non -valid ICSR in  pharmacovigilance database  NCA  10.2.  Request missing info from  primary source  Request missing information for non -valid  ICSR from the primary source through follow - up in line with VI.B.3 . and VI.C.6.2.2.7 . NCA  10.3 Missing info has been  obtained?  Has missing information been obtained for  non-valid ICSR?   If Yes, go to 11.   If No, go to 14.  NCA  11 Missing information has  been obtained for non - valid ICSR   NCA  11.1 Record the outcome of  follow -up with primary  source  Record the outcome of the f ollow-up of  missing information in the pharmacovigilance  database  NCA  11.2 Is the ICSR valid?  Is the report now valid taking into account  the follow -up information obtained from the  primary source?   If Yes, go to 12.   If No, go to 13.  NCA  12 ICSR is valid   NCA  12.1 Report  ICSR to  EudraVgilance  Report  the valid ICSR to EudraVigilance in  line with the principles set out in VI.C.6  NCA  13 ICSR is not valid   MAH     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 113/225     No Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation   13.1 End  NCA  14  Missing information has  not been obtained for  non-valid ICSR  No further infor mation is obtained from the  primary source in the pharmacovigilance  database  NCA  14.1  Record the outcome of the  follow -up Record the fact that no further information  has been obtained from the primary source in  the pharmacovigilance database  NCA  14.2 End  NCA     VI.App.1.32 Follow -up of ICSRs by competent authorities in Member States  with involvement of marketing authorisation holders   Figure VI.2.  Business process map - Follow -up of ICSRs by competent authorities in Member States  (NCAs) with involvement of marketing a uthorisation holders  (MAHs) . See steps description in Table  VI.3.      Guideline on good ph armacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 114/225      Reporter MAHADR  Report EudraVigilanceICSR Message  Delivery NCAContact  MAH to  initiate  follow-upReporter  provided info? Record that  no info was  obtained Record  follow-up  infoInform  NCA Inform  NCA End Submit  follow-up  ICSR to EV Inform NCA EndNo YesNo No Yes Yes NoStart Is follow-up in  progress? Is new info  significant? Involve MAH in  follow-up?ICSR Message  Delivery1 2 3 459Yes7 8 8.1 11.1 11.2 10.1 12 13 13.211.3 13.3Inform  NCA14.1 14.2 15.1Follow-up is  already in  progress6 No info is  obtained 11 Info  obtained  from  reporter10 New info is  significant 13.1New info is  not  significant14 MAH does  not need to  be involved15Follow-up is  not in  progress7.1 Follow-up  is required5.1 ICSR Message  Rerouting EndRequest for ICSR follow-up Contact  reporterSubmit  initial ICSR  to EV Re-route  ICSR to  NCA     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 115/225     Table VI.3.  Process description - Follow -up of ICSRs by competent authorities in Member States  (NCAs) with involvement of marketing authorisation holders  (MAHs) . See proc ess map in Fig ure VI.3.  No Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation   1 Start .  Receipt by the MAH of a valid report of  suspected adverse reaction related to a  medicinal product (ADR report). The clock (D0)  for the submission of the valid ICSR starts (see  VI.B.7.  for day zero definition ). Go to step 2.   Receipt of a report of a suspected adverse  reaction related to a medicine  (ISCR ) MAH  1 Receive report of  suspected drug  adverse reaction(s)  from primary source   Day 0.   Receipt of the information  MAH  2 Submit  ICSR to  EV.Report  ICSR to  EudraVigilance  Report Submit  the valid ICSR  (EEA and non -EEA  serious and EEA non -serious)  to EudraVigilance  (EV)  within the relevant time frames (15 or 90 days, as  applicable) . Non-serious non -EEA ICSRs should not  be submitted to EV. Go to step 3.  in line with the  principles set out in  MAH  3 Re-route ICSR to  NCA. Following  technical validation and process, t he MAH  EEA ICSR submitted by the MAH is rerouted from  EVEudraVigilance  to the relevant NCA of the country  of the primary source for regulatory purposes . Go to  step 4.  Agency EMA  4 Involve MAH in  follow -up?Is follow - up required with  involvement of  MAH?  Is follow -up required for the ICSR with involvement  of the MAH?    If Yes, go t o pointstep 5.   If No, go to pointstep 125.  NCA  5 Follow -up is  required . Member States on whose territory the suspected  adverse reaction occurred may involve the marketing  authorisation holder in the follow -up of the reports  [DIR Art 107a(2) ] (see VI.C.2.1.  for Member States  responsibilities  on ICSRs collection ). The criteri a for  involving the MAH include :  - Need for important additional information for  the  ICSR evaluation or reconciliation,   - Need for clarifications regarding inconsistent  data,   - Need to obtain further information in the context  of the validation of a signal, the evaluation of a  safety issue, the assessment of a periodic safety  update report , or the confirmation of a safety NCA     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 116/225     No Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation   concern in a risk  management plan .   Go to step 5.1.   5.1 Contact MAH to  request initiate   follow -up  information . Send an email to the MAH QPPV (or the local contact  person  where applicable)  to request for the missing  follow -up information .   Indicate dentify  the reference to of the concerned  individual case(s ICSR(s ) by using the World Wide  Unique Case Identifier(s)  for cases  that require  follow -up.   Indicate the criterion/ criteria for the request to  involve the MAH in the ICSR (s) follow -up.  Indicate  the timeframe by when fo llow-up  information should be is to be provided .  Go to step 6. NCA  5.26 Is follow -up already  in progress?  Has follow -up of the reporter already been initiated  by the MAH?   If Yes, progress go to pointstep 67.   If No progress go to pointstep 78.  MAH  67 Follow-up is already  in progress  . Follow -up has already been initiated by the MAH  to  request additional information from the reporter. Go  to step 7.1. MAH  67.1 Inform NCA . that  follow -up is in  progress  Inform the NCA via e-mail that follow -up is already  already in progress . Indicate i using functional  mailbox MAH.followup@ema.europa.eu f the follow -up  information cannot be provided within the requested   time frame and clarify  the time by when the follow - up can be  expected.   Provide the reference to the individual case (s) using    the World Wide Unique Case Identifier  in the  communication . Go to step 9.  Indicate timeline by when follow -up info has been  requested  MAH  6.2 End    78 Follow -up has not  been initiated is not  in progress.   Follow -up has not yet  been initiated by the MAH  with  the reporter. Go to step  8.1. MAH  78.1 Contact  reporter .primary Contact   the reporter primary source  as soon as  possible to obtain follow -up information as per MAH     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 117/225     No Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation   source  request of the NCA’s request . Go to step 9.   Note: When contacting the primary source (s), MAH is  allowed may to indicate that the follow -up is  performed upon request of a NCA .  7.29 Did Reporter primary  source  provide d  information requeste d info ? Was the requested information provided by the  reporter?   If Yes, proceed to pointstep 910.  If No, proceed to pointstep 811.     MAH  8 Primary source  did  not provide follow - up information   MAH    8.1 Record that no  follow -up info was  obtained  Record that primary source  did not provide fol low-up  information  MAH  8.2 Inform NCA  Inform NCA via e-mail that it was not possible to  obtain follow -up information  from primary source  using functional mailbox  MAH.followup@ema.europa.eu   Provide referenc e to individual case s using World  Wide Unique Case Identifier  MAH  8.3  End    910 Information   obtained from  reporter. Primary  source  did provide  follow -up  information   The requested information was obtained from the  reporter . Go to step 10.1.  MAH  910. 1 Record follow -up  information .  Record the follow -up information in  pharmacovigilance database . Go to step 12.   MAH  11 No info rmation  is  obtained.  The reporter  did not provide follow -up information .  Go to step 11.1.  MAH    11.1 Record that no  follow -up  information was  obtained . Record that the reporter  did not provide follow -up  information . Go to step 11.2.  MAH  11.2 Inform NCA . Inform the NCA that it was not possible to obtain MAH     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 118/225     No Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation   follow -up information  from the reporter .  Provide the reference to the individual ca se using  the  World Wide Unique Case Identifier  in the  communication . Go to step 11.3.  11.3  End. End of this follow -up process.  NCA/MAH  9.21 2 Is new  information rmation   significant  and  reportable ? Determine if  the new  obtained  follow -up information   is significant enough (see VI.C.6.2.2.7. Subsection a   for examples of significant and non -significant  information ) to be submitted to EV.   Determine if follow -up information is  significant  enough to be  reportable in accordance with principles  set out in   If Yes, proceed to pointstep 130.  If No, proceed to pointstep 114. MAH  103  Follow -upNew  information  is  significant . and  reportable   The new follow -up information is significant enough  to be submitted to EV. Go to step 13.1. MAH  103. 1 Sendubmit  follow -up  ICSR to  EudraVigilance EV. SendSubmit the  follow -up ICSR to EV within the  relevant time frames (15 or 90 days, as applicable) .  Following technical validation and process, the  follow -up ICSR is rerouted from EV to the relevant  NCA.  Go to step 13.2. to EudraVigilance   in accordance with  principles set out in  MAH  103. 2 Inform NCA . that  follow -up info was  received  Inform the NCA via e-mail that significant follow -up  information from primary source  was received  from  the reporter and submitted to EV . using functional  mailbox MAH.followup@ema.europa.eu   Indicate reference to individual cases Provide the  reference to the individual case using  the World Wide  Unique Case Identi fier in the communication.  Go to  step 13.3. using World Wide Unique Case Identifier  MAH  10.3 End     13.3 End. End of this follow -up process. The follow -up ICSR is  now stored in the NCA database. It is available for  signal detection and data quality  analy ses. NCA/MAH  114  New information  is  not significant.  The new follow -up information is not significant  enough to be submitted to EV. Go to step 14.1.  MAH     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 119/225     No Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation   Follow -up  information is not  significant and not   reportable   114. 1 Inform NCA . Inform the NCA that t he new follow -up information  received from the reporter  is not significant and does  not require submission to EV.   Provide the reference to the individual case using  the  World Wide Unique Case Identifier  in the  communication. Go to step 14.2. Inform NCA that  no  significant new information has been obtained in  accordance with . MAH  114. 2 End. End of this follow -up process.  NCA/MAH  125 MAH does NOT need  to be involved . in  follow -up There is no need to involve the MAH in the ICSR the  follow -up process . NCA  125. 1  End. The ICSR is now stored in the NCA database. It is  available for signal dete ction and data quality  analyses . NCA       Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 120/225      VI.App.1.4 Follow -up of ICSRs for identification of biological medicinal  products   Business process map - Identification of biologic al medicinal products90                                                       90 Mandatory when they are the su bject of reports of suspected adverse reactions [DIR Art 102(e) and IR Art 28 (3)].       Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practice s (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 121/225     Process description - Identification of biological medicinal products   No. Step Description  Responsible  Organisation   1 Start.   Receive report.  Day 0. Receipt of the information  for the case that indicates  that  one of the suspect drugs is of  biological origin.  MAH/NCA   2 Does report concern a  biological medicinal  product?  If Yes, go to step 3   If No, go to step 4    3 Are batch number, brand  name & active substance  all present and  identifiable?  If Yes, create  the case and send  it to the correct receiver (step  34).  If there is more than one batch  number, structure the batch  number that coincided with the  adverse reaction in the Drug  section (ICH -E2B(R2) B.4) and  enter the other batch numbers in  the case narrati ve.:   ICH-E2B(R2) in the Drug  section  B.4, data element B.4.k.3  “Batch/lot number” and enter the  other batch numbers in the case  narrative.    ICH-E2B(R3) in the Drug  section G.k, and repeat the data  element G.k.4.r.7 “Batch/Lot  Number” as necessary.    If No, create the case and s end it  to the correct receiver (step 3 4)  and follow -up with the reporter  (step 3.1).  MAH/NCA   3.1 Follow -up with reporter.  Follow -up with the reporter to  attempt to identify the missing  information.  MAH/NCA      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 122/225     No. Step Description  Responsible  Organisation   3.2 Was reporter able to  provide the missing  information?  If Yes, return to step 1 – the  information should be treated as  follow -up and a new version  created & transmitted .  If No, document this (step 3.3).  MAH/NCA   3.3 Document the required  missing information in the  case. Document in the case that the  missing required information has  been sought but the reporter was  not able or willing to provide it.  MAH/NCA   4 Send to receiver, where   applicable.  If the case requires transmission  to a receiver, transmi t the case  electronically, in ICH-E2B(R2)  format within the relevant  timelines (15 or 90 days), to the  relevant receiver . MAH/NCA   5 Receive in  PharmacoVigilance  DataBase ( PhV DB). Receive the case elect ronically  and load it into the  Pharmaco Vigilance D ataBase. Receiver   6 Validate prod ucts and  substances  Validate the products and  substances to ensure that the  brand name, active substance &  batch number are all present and  identifiable.   This validation should be  complementary to the usual  business rules validations.  Receiver   7 Was vali dation successful?  If Yes, store the case in  the  PharmacoVigilance D ataBase  (step 8).   If No, contact the sender (Step  7.1). Receiver      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 123/225     No. Step Description  Responsible  Organisation   7.1 Contact sender.  Contact the sender regarding the  missing or not identifiable  information.  Receiver   7.2 Is required da ta in the  case file?  Upon receipt of communication  from the receiver, check in the  case file to see if the missing or  unidentifiable information is  already on file.   If it is on file, correct the case  (step 7.3).   If the information is not on file,  contact t he reporter to request  the missing information (step  3.1). MAH/NCA   7.3 Correct case.  Correct the case to include the  missing information & send  updated version to receiver (step  4). MAH/NCA   8 Store case in  PharmacoVigilance  DataBase (PhV DB).  The case sh ould now be stored in  the pharmacovigilance database.  Receiver   9 End. The case is now available for  signal detection and data quality  analyses.       Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 124/225          Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 125/225     VI. Appendix 2 Detailed guidance on the monitoring of  scientific the medical  literature   VI.App2App.2.1. When  to start and stop searching in the scientific  medical  literature   EU specific requirements , as regards the monitoring of the scientific and medical literature medical  literature  are provided in VI.C.2.2.3 ..  In add ition to the reporting submission  of serious and non -serious ICSRs or their presentation in  periodic safety update reports , the marketing authorisation holder  has an obligation to review the  world wide experience with medicinal product in the period between  the submission of the marketing  authorisation application and the granting of the marketing authorisation.  The worldwide experience  include s published scientific and medical literature medical literature . For the period between  submission and granting of a  marketing authorisation, literature searching should be conducted to  identify published articles that provide information that could impact on the risk -benefit assessment of  the product under evaluation . For the purpose of the preparation of periodic safe ty update report s (see  GVP Module VII ) and the notification of emerging safety issues  (see VI.C.2.2.6 . and GVP Module I X for  guidance on emerging  safety issue ), the requirement for literature searching is not dependent on a  product being marketed. Literature searches should be conducted for all products with a marketing  authorisation, irrespective of commercial status. It would therefore be expecte d that literature  searching would start on submission of a marketing authorisation application and continue while the  authorisation is active.   VI.App2App.2.2 Where to look   Articles relevant to the safety of medicinal products are usually published in well -recognised scientific  and medical journals ,; however , new and important information may be first presented at international  symposia or in local journals. Although the most well -known databases (e.g. Medline) cover the  majority of scientific and medical journals, the most relevant publications may be collated elsewhere in  very specialised medical fields for certain types of product (e.g. herbal medicinal products) , or where  safety concerns are subject to non -clinical research. The marketing authorisation ho lder should  establish the most relevant source of published literature for each product.   Medline, Embase and Excerpta Medica are often used for the purpose of identifying  ICSRs. These  databases have broad medical subject coverage.  Other recognised appropr iate systems may be used .  The database providers can advise on the sources of records, the currency of the data, and the nature  of database inclusions. It is best practice to have selected one or more databases appropriate to a  specific product. For exampl e, in risk -benefit assessment, safety issues arising during non -clinical  safety studies may necessitate regular review of a database that has a less clinical focus and includes  more laboratory -based publications.   Relevant published abstracts from meetings  and draft manuscripts should be reviewed for valid  reportable ICSRs  and for inclusion in periodic safety update report s. Although it is not a requirement  for marketing authorisation holder s to attend all such meetings, if there are company personnel at  such a meeting, or it is sponsored by a marketing authorisation holder , it is expected that articles of  relevance would be available to the marketing authorisation holder 's pharmacovigilance system. In  addition, literature that is produced or sponsored by a marketing authorisation holder  should be  reviewed, so that any valid reportable ICSRs can be reported submitted  as required in advance of  publication. If ICSRs are brought to the attention of a marketing authorisation holder  from this source,  they should be  processed in the same way as ICSRs found on searching a database or reviewing a     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 126/225     journal. Abstracts from major scientific meetings are indexed and available in some databases, but  posters and communications are rarely available from this source.   VI.App2.3.Guidance in  VI.C.2.2.3.  should be followed for the searches of databases with broad medical  coverage by the Agency in accordance with Art icleicle 27 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004  of Regulation  (EC) 726/2004  and the  ICSRs submission  reporting  obligations of marketing authorisation holders in  accordance with Art icleicle 107 (3) of Directive 2001/83/EC  of Directive 2001/83/EC .   VI.App.2.3 Database Searches   A search is more than a collection of terms used to inte rrogate a database. Decisions about the  database selection, approach to records retrieval, term or text selection and the application of limits  need to be relevant to the purpose of the search. For searches in pharmacovigilance, some of the  considerations for database searching are described below.   VI.App2App.2.3.1. Precision and recall   Medical and scientific databases are a collection of records relating to a set of publications. For any  given record, each database has a structure that facilitates the orga nisation of records and searching  by various means, from simple text to complex indexing terms with associated subheadings. Search  terms (text or indexed) can be linked using Boolean operators and proximity codes to combine  concepts, increasing or decreasi ng the specificity of a search. In addition, limits to the output can be  set. When searching, the application of search terms means that the output is less than the entire  database of the records held. The success of a search can be measured according to p recision and  recall (also called sensitivity). Recall is the proportion of records retrieved ("hits") when considering  the total number of relevant records that are present in the database. Precision is the proportion of  "hits" that are relevant when consi dering the number of records that were retrieved. In general, the  higher recall searches would result in low precision.   VI.App2App.2.3.2. Search construction   Databases vary in structure, lag time in indexing and indexing policy for new terms. While some  database providers give information about the history of a particular indexing term or the application  of synonyms, other databases are less sophisticated. In addition, author abstracts are not always  consistent in the choice of words relating to pharmacovi gilance concepts or medicinal products/active  substances  names.   When constructing a search for pharmacovigilance, the highest recall for a search would be to enter  the medicinal product  name  and active substance  name  (in all their variants) only. In practi ce,  additional indexing terms and text are added to increase precision and to reduce the search result to  return records that are of relevance to pharmacovigilance. There is a balance to be achieved. It is ,  therefore , expected that complicated searches are  accompanied by initial testing to check that relevant  records are not omitted , however, there is no defined acceptable loss of recall when searching for  pharmacovigilance purposes. Term selection should be relevant to the database used and the subject  of the search.   VI.App2App.2.3.3. Selection of product terms   Searches should be performed to find records for active substance s and not for brand names only. This  can also include excipients or adjuvants  that may have a pharmacological effect. When choosing  search terms for medicinal product s, there are a number of considerations.      Guideline on good pharmacovi gilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 127/225      Is the active substance  an indexed term?    What spellings might be used by authors (particularly if the active substance  is not indexed)?    What alternative names might apply (numbers or codes used for products newly developed,  chemical names, brand names, active metabolites)?    Is it medically relevant to search only for a particular salt or specific  compound for an active  substance ?  During searches for ICSRs, it may be possible to construc t a search that excludes records for  pharmaceutical forms or routes of administration different t o that of the subject product,  however,  restrictions should allow for the inclusion of articles where this is not specified. Search construction  should also al low for the retrieval of overdose , medication error, abuse , misuse , off-label use  or  occupational exposure  information, which could be poorly indexed. Searches should also not routinely  exclude records of unbranded products or records for other company bra nds.  VI.App2App.2.3.4. Selection of search terms   As described previously, there is no acceptable loss of recall when searching published literature for  pharmacovigilance. The use of search terms (free text or use of indexing) to construct more precise  searches may assist in managing the output. Deficiencies that have been found frequently during  Competent Authority inspections include:    the omission of outcome terms,  for example "death" as an outcome may be the only indexed term  in a case of sudden  death;    the omission of pregnancy terms t o find adverse outcomes in pregnancy for submission as ICSR  reporting ;   the omission of terms to include special types of report s which needs to be addressed as well in  periodic safety update reports , for example,    Reports of  asymptomatic overdose , medication error , misuse, abuse, occupational exposure ;    Reports of  uneventful pregnancy .  VI.App2App.2.3.5. Limits to a search   Some databases apply indexing that allows the application of limits to a search, for example by subject  age, sex, publication type. The limits applied to a search are not always shown in the "search strategy"  or search string.   If limits are applied, they should be relevant to the purpose of the search. When searching a worldwide  scientific and medical literatu remedical literature  database, titles and abstracts are usually in English  language. The use of limits that reduce the search result to only those published in the English  language is generally not acceptable. Limits applied to patient types, or other aspe cts of an article, for  example human, would need to be justified in the context of the purpose of a search.   Limits can be applied to produce results for date ranges,  for example, weekly searches can be obtained  by specifying the start and end date for the records to be retrieved. Care should be taken to ensure  that the search is incl usive for an entire time period,  for example, records that may have been added  later in the day for the day of the search should be covered in the next search period. The search   should also retrieve all records added in that period, and not just those initially entered or published     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 128/225     during the specified period (so that records that have been updated or retrospectively added are  retrieved). This should be checked with the database provider if it is not clear.   Although one of the purposes of searching is to identify valid ICSRs which qualify for  reporting submission , the use of publication type limits is not robust. ICSRs may be presented within  review or study publications, and such records may not be indexed as "case -reports", resulting in their  omission for preparation of periodic safety update reports from search results limited by publication  type.  VI.App2App.2.4. Record keeping   Records of literature searches  should be maintained in accordance with  the requirements described in  Article 12 of the Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 520/2012 . Marketing authorisation  holder s should  demonstrate due diligence in searching published scientific and medical  literature medical literat ure. It is always good practice to retain a record of the search construction, the  database used and the date the search was run. In addition, it may be useful to retain results of the  search for an appropriate period of time, particularly in the event of zero results. If decision making is  documented on the results, it is particularly important to retain this information.   VI.App2App.2.5. Outputs   Databases can show search results in different ways, for example , titles only or title and abstract with  or with out indexing terms. Some publications are of obvious relevance at first glance, whereas others  may be more difficult to identify. Consistent with the requirement to provide the full citation for an  article and to identify relevant publications, the title, citation and abstract (if available) should always  be retrieved and reviewed.   VI.App2App.2.6. Review and selection of articles   It is recognised that literature search results are a surrogate for the actual article. Therefore, it is  expected that the person  reviewing the results of a search is trained  to identify the articles of  relevance. This may be an information professional trained in pharmacovigilance or a  pharmacovigilance professional with knowledge of the database used. Recorded confirmation that th e  search results have been reviewed will assist in demonstrating that there is a systematic approach to  collecting information about suspected adverse reactions from literature sources. It is recommended  that quality control checks are performed on a sampl e of literature reviews / selection of articles to  check the primary reviewer is identifying the relevant articles.   A common issue in selecting relevant articles from the results of a search is that often this process is  conducted for the purposes of ident ification of ICSRs only. Whereas the review should also be used as  the basis for collating articles for the periodic safety update report  production, therefore relevant  studies with no ICSRs should also be identified, as well as those reports of events  that do not qualify  for reporting submission as ICSR  (see VI.C.2.2.3.2.  for the exclusion criteria in the submission of ICSRs  published in the medical  literature ).  Outputs from searches may contain enough i nformation to be a valid ICSR, in which case the article  should be ordered. All articles for search results that are likely to be relevant to pharmacovigilance  requirements should be obtained, as they may contain valid ICSRs or relevant safety information . The  urgency with which this occurs should be proportionate  to the content of the material reviewed  and the  resulting requirement for action as applicable for  the marketing authorisation holder .      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 129/225     Articles can be excluded f orom the submission of valid ICSRs  reporting by the marketing authorisation  holder  if another company's branded medicinal product is the suspect ed medicinal product. In the  absence of a specified medicinal product source and/or invented name, ownership of the medicinal  product should be as sumed for articles about an active substance. Alternative reasons for  the exclusion  of a published article for the reporting submission of ICSRs are detailed in VI.C.2.2.3.2. .  VI.App2App.2.7. Day zero   As described in VI.B.7 ., day zero is the date on which an organisation becomes aware of a publication  containing the minimum information for a n ICSR to be reportable qualify for submission . Awareness of  a publicat ion includes any personnel of that organisation, or third parties with contractual  arrangements with the organisation. It is sometimes possible to identify the date on which a record  was available on a database, although with weekly literature searching, d ay zero for the submission of  an reportable  adverse reaction present in an abstract is taken to be the date on which the search was  conducted. For articles that have been ordered as a result of literature search results, day zero is the  date when the minim um information for a n ICSR to be valid is available . Organisations should take  appropriate measures to obtain articles promptly in order to confirm the validity of a case.   VI.App2App.2.8. Duplicates   Consistent with the general requirements for the reportin g submission  of cases  of suspected adverse  reactions ICSRs , literature cases should be checked to prevent reporting the submission  of duplicates   ICSRs , and previously reported cases should be identified as such when reported . It is, therefore,  expected that ICSRs are checked in the organisation database to identify literature articles that have  already been reported submitted . Where applicable, this should include ICSRs resulting from the  Agency’s Medical Literature Monitoring activities in accordance with Art icleicle 27 of Regulation (EC) No  726/2004  of Regulation (EC) 726/2004 .  VI.App2App.2.9. Contracting out literature search services   It is possible to use the services of another party to conduct searches of the published scientific and  medical literature medical literature . In this event, the responsibility for the performance of the search  and subsequent reporting submission of ICSRs  still remains . with the exception of the provisions set  out in Art icleicle 27 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004  of Regulation EC)  726/2004 and Articleicle 107(3)  of Directive 2001/83/EC  of Directive 2001/83/EC . The transfer of a pharmacovigilance task or function  should be detailed in a contract between the organisation and the service provider. The nature of third  party arrangement s for literature searching can range from access to a particular database interface  only (access to a technology) to full literature searching, review and reporting ICSRs submission  (using  the professional pharmacovigilance services of another organisation ). It is recognised that more than  one organisation may share services of a third party to conduct searches for generic active substance s.  In this instance, each organisation should satisfy itself that the search and service is appropriate to  their needs  and obligations .   Where an organisation is dependent on a particular service provider for literature searching, it is  expected that an assessment of the service(s) is undertaken to determine whether it meets the needs   and obligations of the organisation. In  any case, the arrangement should be clearly documented.   The clock start for the reporting submission  of ICSRs begins with awareness of the minimum  information by either the organisation or the  contractual partner (whichever  is the earliest). This also  applies where a third par ty provides a review or  a collate d report from the published scientific and  medical literature medical literature , in order to ensure that published literature cases are     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 130/225     reported submitted  as required within the correct  time frames. That  is, day zero is the date the search  was run if the minimum criteria are available in the abstract and not the date the information was  supplied to the organisation.   VI.App2App.2.10. Electronic submission of copies of articles  on suspected  adverse reaction s published in the scientific medical  literature   Until standards for the electronic transmission of attachments (e.g. copies of literature articles) are  developed in the framework of ICH, the sender should follow the rules outlined below for the  submission  of a copy of the literature article as detailed in VI.C.6.2.3.2 .:  Mailing address and format of literature articles:   Literature articles reportable to the Agency should be provided in PDF format and sent via e -mail t o the  following e -mail address: EVLIT@ema.europa.eu .  In relation to copies of articles from the published scientific and medical literature, marketing  authorisation holders are recommended to consider potential c opyright issues specifically as regards  the electronic transmission and handling of electronic copies in the frame of regulatory activities.   File name of literature articles sent in electronic format to the Agency:   The file name of a literature article sen t in PDF format should match exactly the ‘World -Wide Unique  Case Identification Number’ (ICH -E2B(R2) A.1.10.1 or A.1.10.2 as applicable) assigned to the  individual case, which is described in the article and which is reported in the E2B(R2) ICSR format.   If there is a follow -up article to the individual case published in the literature, the file name with the  World -Wide Unique Case Identification Number must be maintained but should include a sequence  number separated with a dash.   Examples:   Initial ICSR publ ished in the literature: FR -ORGABC -23232321 (data element ‘World -Wide Unique C ase  Identification Number’ (ICH -E2B(R2) A.1.10.1));   File name of the literature article: FR -ORGABC -23232321.pdf.   Follow -up information published in the literature in a separate a rticle:   ICSR: FR -ORGABC -23232321 (data element World -Wide Unique Case Identificatio n Number remains  unchanged (ICH -E2B(R2) A.1.10.1));   File name: FR -ORGABC -23232321 -1.pdf.   Reporting of cases reported in the scientific and medical literature referring to mo re than one patient:   When the literature article refers to the description of more than one patient, the copy of the literature  article should be sent only once.   The file name of a literature article sent in PDF format should match exactly the ‘World -Wide Unique  Case Identific ation Number’ (data element ICH -E2B(R2) A.1.10.1 or A.1.10.2 as applicable) assigned  to the first reportable individual case described in the article.   In addition, all ICSRs which relate to the same literature article should be cross r eferenced in the data  element ‘Identification number of the report which is linked to this report’ (ICH -E2B(R2) A.1.12). The  data element should be repeated as necessary to cross refer all related cases  (see Table VI.2 .).     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 131/225     Examples for the reporting of ICSRsIn accordance with Article Article 28(3) of the Commission  Implementing Regulation (EU) No 520/2012 , of the Commission Implementing Regulation (EU)  520/2012 and upon request of the Agency, the marketing authorisation holder that transmitted the  initial rep ort shall provide a copy of the relevant article taking into account copyright restrictions, and a  full translation of that article into English.    Table VI.4.  In line with ICH -E2B the following applies  as regards the  electronic submission of a copy  of an article inclu ding a full translation where applicable : Electronic transmission submission  of copies of  literature articles/translations  on suspected adverse reactions in line with ICH -E2B  Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   ICH-E2B(R2)  1. Mailing address and format of lit erature articles:   Literature articles reportable to the Agency should be provided in PDF format  and sent via e -mail to the following e -mail address: EVLIT@ema.europa.eu .  In relation to copies of articles from the  published scientific and medical  literature medical literature , marketing authorisation holders are recommended  to consider potential copyright issues specifically as regards the electronic  transmission submission  and handling of electronic copies in the fr ame of  regulatory activities.   2. File name of literature articles sent in electronic format to the Agency:   The file name of a literature article sent in PDF format should match exactly the  data element A.1.10.1 or A.1.10.2 ‘World -Wide Unique C ase Identificati on  Number’ assigned to the individual case, which is described in the article and  which is provided  in the E2B(R2) ICSR format.   If there is a follow -up article to the individual case published in the literature,  the file name with the World -Wide Unique Cas e Identification Number must be  maintained but should include a sequence number separated with a dash.   Examples:    Initial ICSR published in the literature: FR -ORGABC -23232321 data element  A.1.10.1 ‘World -Wide Unique C ase Identification Number’ ;   File name of  the literature article: FR -ORGABC -23232321.pdf.    Follow -up information published in the literature in a separate article:    ICSR: FR -ORGABC -23232321 data element A.1.10.1 '’World -Wide Unique  Case Identificatio n Number ’ remains unchanged ;   File name: FR -ORGABC -23232321 -1.pdf.   3. Reporting Submission  of cases described  in the scientific and medical  literature medical literature  referring to more than one patient:   When the literature article refers to the description of more than one patient, the  copy of the literature  article should be sent only once.   The file name of a literature article sent in PDF format should match exactly data  element A.1.10.1 or A.1.10.2 as applicable  ‘World -Wide Unique Case  Identific ation Number’ assigned to the first reportable submitted  indivi dual case     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 132/225     Reference  E2B(R2)/(R3) requirements   described in the article.   In addition, all ICSRs which relate to the same literature article should be cross  referenced in data element A.1.12 ‘Identification number of the report which is  linked to this report’. The data element should be repeat ed as necessary to cross  refer all related cases.   ICH-E2B(R3)     Information on how to attach documents to an ICSR is provided in section 3.5  ‘Document Attachments’  of the ICH-E2B(R3) Implementation Guide for  Electronic Transmission of Individual Case Safet y Reports (ICSRs) - Data  Elements and Message Specification .    When a literature article is sent as an attachment, the literature citation in  Vancouver style is captured in data element C.4.r.1  ‘Literature Reference(s)’.  The Digital Object Identifier (DOI) for the article should be included where  available. The example reference hereafter  highlight s how this should be done :   “International Committee of Medical Journal Editors. Uniform requirements for  manuscripts submitted to biomedical journals. N Engl J Me d 1997; 336:309 -15.  doi:10.1056/NEJM199701233360422 .”   The electronic version of the document (i.e. the journal article and a copy of the  translation where applicable) should be attached to the ICSR in data element  C.4.r.2.  ‘Included Documents ’.   If the arti cle and/or translation are not provided at the time of ICSR  reporting submission , attachments can be transsubmitted separately  from the  ICSR transmission . When the sender transmits an attachment later, the original  ICSR along with all the same medical infor mation captured in E2B(R3) data  elements is retransmitted as an ‘amendment’ (see VI.C.6.2.2.8.  for guidance on  amendment reports ). If new information has been received and the data  elements in E2B(R3) have been updated , then the ICSR with attachment is  transmitted as a follow -up.   In addition, all ICSRs which relate to the same literature article should be cross  referenced in data element  C.1.10.r ‘Identification Number of the Report Linked  to this Report (rep eat as necessary)’ .    VI.App.2.11 Examples for the reporting submission as ICSRs of suspected  adverse reactions described in the scientific and medical literature medical  literature  and referring to more than one patient   Table VI.2. Table VI.5.  Examples for the reporting submission  as ICSRs  of suspected adverse  reactions  described in the scientific and medical literature medical literature  and referring to more than  one patient   Ex. Scenario  Action   1   A literature article describes  suspected adverse reactions that  have been experienc ed by up to For Case 1 described in the literature article:   c. ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.10.1 ‘World -Wide Unique Case  Identification Number’:      Guideline on  good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 133/225     Ex. Scenario  Action   3 single  patients.   3 ICSRs should be created and  reported for each individual  identifiable patient  described in  the literature article .  Each ICSR should contain all the  available information on the  case. UK-ORGABC -0001  d. ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.12 ‘Identification number of the  report which is linked to this report’:   UK-ORGABC -0002  e. ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.12 ‘Identification number of the  report whi ch is linked to this report’:   UK-ORGABC -0003  f. ICH-E2B(R2) A.2.2 ‘Literature reference(s):   Literature reference in line with uniform requirements  for manuscripts submitted to biomedical journals:   N Engl J Med. 1997;336:309 -15.  g. File name for the copy of liter ature article to be sent  via e-mail to EVLIT@ema.europa.eu :  UK-ORGABC -0001.pdf     For Case 2 described in the literature article:   h. ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.10.1 ‘World -Wide Unique Case  Identification Number’:   UK-ORGABC -0002  i. ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.12 ‘Identification number of the  report which is linked to this report’:   UK-ORGABC -0001  j. ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.12 ‘Identification number of the  report which is linked to this report’:   UK-ORGABC -0003  k. ICH-E2B(R2) A.2.2 ‘Literature reference(s):   Literature reference in line with uniform requirements  for manuscripts submitted to biomedical journals:   N Engl J Med. 1997;336:309 -15.  l. No copy of the literature article required since the  copy was already submitted for case 1.     For Case 3 described in the lit erature article:   m. ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.10.1 ‘World -Wide Unique Case  Identification Number’:   UK-ORGABC -0003  n. ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.12 ‘Identification number of the  report which is linked to this report’:   UK-ORGABC -0001  o. ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.12 ‘Identification number of the  report which is linked to this report’:   UK-ORGABC -0002  p. ICH-E2B(R2) A.2.2 ‘Literature reference(s):   Literature reference in line with uniform requirements  for manuscripts submitted to biomedical journals:   N Engl J Med. 1997;336:309 -15.  q. No copy of the literat ure article required since the  copy was already submitted for case 1.      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 134/225     Ex. Scenario  Action   21 A literature article describes  suspected adverse reactions that  have been experienced by more  than 3 single  patients. one  identifiable  patient.    ICSRs should be created and and  report edsubmitted  for each  individual identifiable patient   described in the literature  article .  Each ICSR should contain all the  available information on the  case.  The cross reference with all the  linked ICSRs from this literature  article should only be provided  in  the first casesubmitted ICSR, in  the data element ICH -E2B(R2)  A.1.12 ‘Identification number of  the report which is linked to this  report’ . There is no need to  repeat all the cross references in  the other ICSRs . For the ICSRs which relate to the same li terature article,  the cross reference in the data element ICH (E2B(R2)  A.1.12 / ICH-E2B(R3) C.1.10.r  ‘Identification number of the  report which is linked to this report’ ICH (E2B(R2) field  A.1.12) should be conducted as follows:    The first case should be lin ked to all other cases related  to the same article ; (1-n);   All the other cases  (n) should be only linked to the first  one, as in the example below.   Example for the reporting submission  of cases originally  reported described  in the scientific and medical  literature medical literature  referring to a large number of  patients:     For Casecase 1 described in the literature article:    data element ICH -E2B(R2) A.1.10.1 / ICH -E2B(R3)  C.1.8.1  ‘Worldwide Unique Case Identification Number’:   UK-ORGABC -0001   data element ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.12 / ICH-E2B(R3)  C.1.10.r  ‘Identification number of the report which is  linked to this report’:   UK-ORGABC -0002   data element ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.12 / ICH -E2B(R3)  C.1.10.r  ‘Identification number of the report which is  linked to this report’:   UK-ORGAB C-0003   data element ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.12 / ICH -E2B(R3)  t  C.1.10.r  ‘Identification number of the report which is  linked to this report’:   UK-ORGABC -0004   data element ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.12 / ICH-E2B(R3)  C.1.10.r  ‘Identification number of the report which is  linked to this report’:   UK-ORGABC -000N    data element ICH-E2B(R2) A.2.2 / ICH -E2B(R3) C.4.r.   ‘Literature reference(s)’:   N Engl J Med. 1997;336:309 -15.  File name for the copy Literature reference in line with  uniform requirements for manuscripts submitted to  biomedi cal journals  including DOI if available :  e.g. “ N  Engl J Med 1997; 336:309 -15.  doi:10.1056/NEJM199701233360422 “   Copy of literature article  to be sent via e -mail to  EVLIT@ema.europa.eu :/translation: follow steps as   outlined in Table VI. 4.    UK-ORGABC -0001.pdf.     For Case 2 described in the literature article:      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 135/225     Ex. Scenario  Action    data element ICH -E2B(R2) A.1.10.1 / ICH -E2B(R3)  C.1.8.1  ‘Worldwide Unique Case Identification Number’:   UK-ORGABC -0002   data elem ent ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.12 / ICH -E2B(R3)  C.1.10.r  ‘Identification number of the report which is  linked to this report’:   UK-ORGABC -0001   data element ICH-E2B(R2) A.2.2 / ICH-E2B(R3) C.4.r.    ‘Literature reference(s)’:   N Engl J Med. 1997;336:309 -15.  Literature ref erence in line with uniform requirements  for manuscripts submitted to biomedical journals   including DOI if available : e.g. „ N Engl J Med 1997;  336:309 -15. doi:10.1056/NEJM199701233360422 “   No copy of the literature article required since the copy  was alread y submitted for case 1.     For Case N described in the literature article:    data element ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.10.1 / ICH -E2B(R3)  C.1.8.1   ‘Worldwide Unique Case Identification  Number’:   UK-ORGABC -000N    data element ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.12 / ICH -E2B(R3)  C.1.10.r  ‘Identific ation number of the report which is  linked to this report’:   UK-ORGABC -0001   data element ICH-E2B(R2) A.2.2 / ICH -E2B(R3) C.4.r.    ‘Literature reference(s)’:   N Engl J Med. 1997;336:309 -15.  Literature reference in line with uniform requirements  for manuscript s submitted to biomedical journals   including DOI if available : e.g. „ N Engl J Med 1997;  336:309 -15. doi:10.1056/NEJM199701233360422 “   No copy of the literature article required since the copy  was already submitted for case 1.        Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 136/225     VI. Appendix 3 Modalities fo r reporting Reporting m Modalities   for the submission  of ICSRs in EU   VI.App. 3.1. Modalities applicable to competent authorities in Member  States and to marketing authorisation holders        Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 137/225     Figure VI.1. Figure VI.3.  Business process map - ICSRs submission  in EU by competent authorities  in Member States  (NCAs) and marketing authorisation holders  (MAHs) . See steps description in Table  VI.6.  NCA/MAH EMACreate ICSR Is ICSR  Serious?No YesIs ICSR from  EEA?No End EudraVigilanceYes Technical  validation  (business  rules) ICSR stored  in EVStart  ADR  ReportReporter 1 ACK  message  sent to  senderReceive  ACK  messageIs ICSR ACK  positive? EndCorrect  ICSR Resubmit  corrected  ICSR to EV Was ICSR ACK  positive?End Await  corrected  ICSRNo Yes No Yes2 3 4 5 117 6 12 12.1138 9 10 9.1 10.13.1 3.2Is ICSR valid? 2.1 YesProceed as outlined in  VI.App.1.1NoICSR ACK ICSR Message  DeliveryICSR Message  DeliverySubmit ICSR  to EVNCA/MAH  database     VI.App3.1. Interim  arrangement s  Business process map - Suspected adverse reaction  reporting in EU – Interim arrangement s     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 138/225             Table VI.3.  Process description - Suspected adverse reaction  reporting in EU - Interim arrangement s  No. Step Description  Responsible  Organisation   1 Start.   Receive report.  Marketing Authorisation Holder  (MAH) receives information on a MAH      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 139/225     No. Step Description  Responsible  Organisation   suspected adverse reaction from a  patient, healthcare professional or  other valid reporter . If the case has  been received from a n EU NCA, do not   retransmit it to EudraVigilance (EV).    2 Open case.  Open and create an individual case safety  report.  MAH  3 Is case from EEA ? Did the adverse reactions occur in the EU?   If No, go to step 3.1.  If Yes, got so step 5.  MAH  3.1 Is case serious?  If No, go to step 3.2.  If Yes, got to step 4. MAH  3.2 End. The cas e is now stored in the MAHs  pharmacovigilance database. Normal  follow -up activities should continue  and if any follow -up is received,  return to step 1.  MAH  4 Send to EV & relevant NCAs.  Transmit the serious case electronically,  in ICH E2B(R2) format as an  xml message  within the 15 -day time  frame  to EV and to  the relevant NCAs , where required . The  case goes to step 4.1 & step 6.  MAH  4.1 Receive in EV.  Receive the message in EV database from  MAH or NCA.  EMA  4.2 Technical Validation (EV  Business Rules).  Every message that is received in EV is  validated against the EudraVigilance  Business Rules and an Acknowledgement  message (ACK) is created specifying  whether or not the message & the case(s)  therein are valid.   A valid message will have an ACK code  01. A non -valid message will have an ACK  code 02 (if a case contained therein is  non-valid) or 03 (if the message itself is  not correctly formatted).  EMA  4.3 Store in EV.  Once the case has been validated, it is  stored in EV.  EMA  4.4 Send ACK.  The acknowledgement m essage created in  step 4.2 is transmitted to the case  sender, no later than 2 business days  following receipt of the case.   Go to step 16  for MAHs receiving the ACK.   Go to step 20  for NCAs receiving the ACK.   Go to step 4.5 for the EMA’s next step.  EMA  4.5 Was ACK code 01?  If No, go to step 4.6.   If Yes, go to step 4.7.  EMA     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 140/225     No. Step Description  Responsible  Organisation   4.6 Await corrected case.  The sender should correct every case with  an error ACK and retransmit within the  regulatory reporting timelines. Periodically  the EMA should assess all cases wit h an  error ACK for which a corrected case has  not been transmitted and contact the  Qualified Person responsible for  Pharmaco Vigilance (QPPV) to inform of  these missing corrected cases. If a sender  fails to correct cases, then this  information should be inc orporated into  data quality assessments and the  appropriate committees should be  informed.   Go back to step 4.1 upon receipt of the  corrected case.  EMA  4.7 End. The case is now stored in EV &,  following duplicate detection &  recoding will be available for signal  detection and data quality analyses.  EMA  5 Send to relevant NCA.  Transmit the case (serious, and if  required  non-serious) electronically, in  ICH E2B(R2) format as an xml message  within the relevant time  frames (15 or 90  days, as applicable), to the  relevant NCA  for the Member State  where  the reaction  occurred. If country of occurrence has not  been specified, then country of primary  source should normally be taken to be the  occurrence country.  MAH  6 Rece ive in  PharmacoVigilance D ataBase  (PhV DB) . Receive the mes sage from MAH in the  NCA’s PhV DB . NCA  7 Technical Validation (EV  Business Rules).  Every message that is received in the  NCA’s PhV DB should be validated against  the EudraVigilance Business Rules and an  Acknowledgement message (ACK) is  create d specifying whether or not the  message & the case(s) therein are valid.   A valid message will have an ACK code  01. A non -valid message will have an ACK  code 02 (if a case contained therein is  non-valid) or 03 (if the message itself is  not correctly formatt ed). NCA  8 Store in EV.  Once the case has been validated,  it is  stored in the NCA’s PhV DB . NCA     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 141/225     No. Step Description  Responsible  Organisation   9 Send ACK.  The acknowledgement message created in  step 7 is transmitted to the case sender  no later than 2 business days following  receipt of the case.   Go to  step 16  for MAHs receiving the ACK.   Go to step 10 for the NCA’s next step.  NCA  10 Was ACK code 01?  If No, go to step 10.1.   If Yes, go to step 11.  NCA  10.1 Await corrected case.  The MAH should correct every case with  an error ACK and retransmit it within  the  regulatory reporting timelines. Periodically  the NCA should assess all cases with an  error ACK for which a corrected case has  not been transmitted and contact the  QPPV to inform them of these missing  corrected cases. If a sender fails to  correct cases , then this information  should be incorporated into any data  quality assessments performed and the  appropriate action can be taken.   Go back to step 6 upon receipt of the  corrected case.  NCA  11 Was case from NCA’s MS?  Did the case occur in the territory of  the  receiving NCA?   If No, go to step 11.1.   If Yes, go to step 12.  NCA  11.1 End. The c ase is now stored in the NCA’s  PharmacoVigilance D ataBase &,  following duplicate detection &  recoding will be available for signal  detection and data quality analyses.  NCA  12 Send to EV  & MAH . Transmit the serious case electronically,  in ICH E2B(R2) format as a n xml message  within the 15 -day time frame  to EV  and to  the relevant MAH(s) .  Go to step 4.1  for reception of the case in  EV  Go to step 24 for reception of the case  by  the relevant MAH(s)  NCA  13 Start.   Receive report.  NCA receives information on a  suspected adverse reaction from a  patient, healthcare professional or  other valid reporter concerning a  suspected adverse reaction occurring  in the territory of the recei ving  competent authority.  NCA     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 142/225     No. Step Description  Responsible  Organisation   14 Open case.  Open and create an individual c ase safety  report.  NCA  15 Is case serious?  If No, go to step 15.1   If Yes, go to step 12  NCA  15.1 End The c ase is now stored in the NCA’s  Pharmaco Vigilance D ataBase &,  following d uplicate detection &  recoding will be available for signal  detection and data quality analyses.  NCA  16 Receive ACK.  Receive the ACK message, associate it  with the relevant case(s) and check to  ensure that the case was considered  valid.  MAH  17 Was ACK cod e 01?  If yes, go to step 17 .1.  If no, then the regulatory timeline clock  has not stopped and the case should be  corrected and re -transmitted to EV within  the relevant regulatory reporting  timelines. Day 0 remains as the day that  the first information was r eceived. A 02 or  03 ACK does not constitut e new  information. Go to step 18  (Correct case).  MAH  17.1 End. End the process of transmitting this  version of the case to EV or NCA.  Normal follow -up activities should  continue and if any follow -up is  received, r eturn to step 1.  MAH  18 Correct case.  Correct the case to remove the errors  identified in the ACK.  MAH  19 Retransmit to the organisation  which rejected the case.  Retransmit the corrected case to the  organisation which rejected the case with  ACK code 02 o r 03.  Got to step 4.1 &/or step 6 as  appropriate.  MAH  20 Receive ACK.  Receive the ACK message, associate it  with the relevant case(s) and check to  ensure that the case was considered  valid.  NCA  21 Was ACK code 01?  If yes, go to step 2 3.  If no, then the r egulatory timeline clock  has not stopped and the case should be  corrected and re -transmitted to EV within  the relevant regulatory reporting  timelines. Day 0 remains as the day that  the first information was received. A 02 or  03 ACK does not constitute new NCA     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 143/225     No. Step Description  Responsible  Organisation   information. Go to step 2 2 (Correct case).   22 Correct case.  Correct the case to remove the errors  identified in the ACK and retransmit the  case to EV and to the relevant MAH(s)  (go  back to step 12).  NCA  23 End. End the process of transmitting this  version of the case to EV and to the  relevant MAH(s) . Normal follow -up  activities should continue and if any  follow -up is received, return to step 6  or 13.  NCA  24 Receive report from NCA  MAH receives information on a  suspected adverse reaction from an  NCA.   This case should not be retransmitted  to EV and to the NCA which  transmitted it to the MAH  MAH  25 End The case is now stored in the MAH’s  Pharmaco Vigilance DataB ase &,  following duplicate detection &  recoding will be available for signal  detection and dat a quality analyses.  MAH       Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 144/225     VI.App3.1.1 . Interim arrangements applicable to marketing authorisation  holders   Reporting requirements of individual case safety reports  applicable to marketing authorisation holders  during the interim period are detailed  in the l atest version of Doc. EMA/321386/201 2 available on EMA  website .      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 145/225     VI.App3.1.2 . Interim arrangements a pplicable to competent authorities in  Member States   Table VI.4.  Reporting requirements applicable to competent authorities in Member States - Interim  arrangements   Marketing authorisation  procedure  Origin  Adverse reaction type  Destination  Time  frame   c. Centralised   d. Mutual recogniti on,  decentralised or  subject to  referral   e. Purely national  EU All serious  - EudraVigilance  database   - Marketing  authorisation holder  of the suspected  medicinal product  15 days        Guideline on good ph armacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 146/225     VI.App3.2. Final arrangemen ts  Figure VI.2.  Business process map - Suspected adverse reaction ICSRs reporting in EU - Final  arrangements         Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 147/225     Table VI.5. Table VI.6.  Process description - Suspected adverse reaction ICSRs reporting submission  in EU by competent authorities in Member States (NCAs) and marketing authorisation holders  (MAHs) .  See process map in Figure VI.4. - Final a rra–gement s  No. Step Description  Responsible  Organisation   1 Start .  Receive report . Receipt by the NCA or the MAH of a report of a  suspected adverse reaction related to a  medicin e al product (ADR report) . Go to step 2.  NCA/MAH   2 Open Create  ICSRcase. Open and c Create an individual case safety report   (ICSR) . Go to step 2.1.  NCA/MAH   2.1 Is ICSR valid?  Is the report a valid ICSR in accordance with VI.B.2. ?  If no, follow -up on the ICSR as  described in  VI.App.1.1 .  If yes , go to step 3 . NCA/MAH   3 Is case serious?  If No go to step 3.1.  If Yes, go to step 4. NCA/MAH   3 Is ICSR serious?  Is the ICSR serious?   If No go to step 3.1.  If Yes, go to step 4. NCA/MAH   3.1 Is case ICSR from  EEA? Is the ICSR from EEA?   If No go to step 3.2.  If Yes, go to step 4. NCA/MAH   3.2 End. The ICSR is not serious and it is not from the EEA. It  should not be sent to EV . NCA/MAH   4 Send Submit ICSR   to EV.  Transmit Submit  the case ICSR (EEA and non -EEA  serious , and E EA non-serious) to EudraVigilance  (EV)(all serious and EU non -serious)  electronically , in  ICH -E2B(R2 /R3) format as an XML message as an  xmlXML message within the relevant time  frame (15  or 90 days, as applicable) , to EV . Non-serious non - EEA ICSRs should not be submitted to EV. Go to step  5.  See guidance in the EU ICSR Implementation Guide  (EMA/51938/2013 ) in case of system failure in safety  message generation, submission , rece ipt, processing   and rerouting . NCA/MAH   5 Message r eceive d in  EV.Receive in EV.  Receive the message in the EV.  Go to step 6.  EMA  6 Technical Validation Every mes sage that is received in EV is validated EMA     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 148/225     No. Step Description  Responsible  Organisation   (EV Business Rules).  against the EudraVigilance Business Rules and an  Acknowledgement acknowledgement message (ACK)  is created specifying whether or not the mmessage &  the case ICSR(s) therein are validcorrect .  The acknowledgement  messag e is sent to the sender  (Go to step 7) .   - E2B(R2) messages will receive an E2B(R2)  acknowledgement .  -  and an E2B(R3) message s will receive an  E2B(R3) acknowledgement.   - A valid correct  message E2B(R2) ICSR  will have an  E2B(R2) ACK code 01 . (ACK_B.1.8).   - An non-valid E2B(R2) ICSR not correct will have  an E2B(R2) ACK code 02  (ACK_B.1.8).    - An non-valid E2B(R2) message will have an  ACKreceive a n 03 transmision transmission   acknowledgement  code 03 02(ACK_A.1.6)  (if a  case contained therein the message  itself is not  correctly formatted ).  - A validcorrect  E2B(R3) ICSR will have an E2B(R3)  ACK code “ CA” (ACK.B.r.6).   - An non-valid) or 03  E2B(R3) ICSR not correct will  have an E2B(R3) ACK code “CR” (ACK.B.r.6).   - An non-valid E2B(R3) message will receive a n  “AR” transmision transmission  acknowledgement  code “AR” (ACK.A.4)   (if the message itself is not  correctly formatted ).  7 Send ACK message  sent. The acknowledgement message created in step 6 is  transmitted to the case sender no later than 2  business days following the receipt of the caseICSR.  Go to step 9 11 for the EMA’s next step.   Go to step 10 8 for MAH/NCA’s next step.  EMA  8 Store in EV.  Once the case has been validated, it is stored in the  EV. EMA  9 Was a positive ACK  code 01received ? If No go to step 9.1.   If Yes, go  to step 9.2.  EMA  9.1 Await corrected  case. The sender should correct every case with an error  ACK and retransmit it within the regulatory reporting  timelines. Periodically the EMA should assess all  cases with an error ACK for which a corrected case  has n ot been transmitted and contact the Qualified EMA     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 149/225     No. Step Description  Responsible  Organisation   Person responsible for PharmacoVigilance (QPPV) to  inform these missing corrected cases. sender . If a  sender fails to correct cases , this information should  be incorporated into data quality assessments and  the appropriate committees should be informed.   Go back to step 6 upon receipt of the corrected case.  9.2 End. The case is now stored in EV &, following duplicate  detection & recoding  will be available for signal  detection and data quality analyses.   If the  case occurred in the EU and was transmitted to  EV by a MAH, it will be  rerouted to the relevant NCA  (see VI. Appendix App.3.3) EMA  108 Receive ACK   message .Receive  ACK. Receive the ACK message .,   Aassociate it with the relevant caseICSR(s) and  check  that to ensure that the case wasit was   considered valid.  Go to step 9.  NCA/MAH MAH/ NCA  119 Is a ICSR positive  AACK positive? code  01received ? Is a positive acknowledgement  code received for the  ICSR?   If yes, go  to step  11 9.1.  If no, then the regulatory timeline clock has not  stopped and the case ICSR should be corrected and  re-transmitted to EV within the relevant regulatory  reporting timelines. Day 0 remains as the day that  the first information was received. Go to step 1 0 to  correct  the ICSR.A  Neither a n ICSR not correct (with an E2B(R2) ACK  code 02 or E2B(R3) ACK code “CR”) , nor a message  not correct (with an E2B(R2) transmission  acknowledgement code  03 ACK does not constitut eor  E2B(R3) transmission acknowled gement code “AR”  transmision acknowledgement code ) constitute s new  information . Go to step 12 (Correct case)  NCA/MAH MAH/ NCA  11.1 9.1 End. End the process for this ICSRversion of the case .  Normal follow -up activities should continue and if any  follow -up report is received, return to step 1.  NCA/MAH MAH/ NCA  1210 Correct caseICSR. Correct the ICSR case to remove t he errors identified  in the ACK.  Go to step 10.1.  NCA/MAH MAH/ NCA  12.1 10.1 Resubmit corrected  ICSR.  Resubmit the corrected ICSR to EV .  Go back to ste p 5 for the receipt of the corrected NCA/MAH MAH/ NCA     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 150/225     No. Step Description  Responsible  Organisation   ICSR in EV ..  11 Store ICSR in EV.  Once the ICSR has been technically validated  (step  6) and the acknowledgement message is transmitted  to the sender ( step 7 ), the ICSR  is stored in the EV.   Go to step 12.  EMA  12 Was ICSR ACK  positive?  Did the technical validation  of the ICSR in step 6  create a positive ACK code?   If no, perform no further processing on this version  of the ICSR and go to step 12.1  If Yes, go to step 13. EMA  12.1 Await corrected  case. The sender should correct every ICSR with an error  ACK and retransmit it within the appropriate  regulatory timelines.   EMA periodically assesses all ICSRs  with an error ACK  for which a corrected version  has not been  transmitted and contact the sender  to inform  of these  missing corrected ICSRs. If a sender fails to correct  the ICSRs , this information is incorporated into data  quality assessments  and the appropriate committee  is informed.   The ICSR stored in EV (step 11 ) while waiting for  corrected version . Go bac k to step 5  upon receipt of  the corrected ICSR. EMA  13 End. The ICSR is now stored in EV .   It is available for signal detection and data quality  analyses  following duplicate detection and recoding .  If the ICSR occurred in the EU and was transmitted  to EV by a MAH, it will be rerouted to the relevant  NCA (see VI.App.3. 4).   See guidance in the EU ICSR Implementation Guide  (EMA/51938/2013 ) in case of system failure in safety  message generation, submission , rece ipt, processing   and rerouting . EMA       Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 151/225     VI.App3.2App.3.12. Final arrangement sRequirements  applicable to  marketing aut horisation  holders   Table VI.6. Table VI.7.  ICSRs  submission  requirements  Reporting requirements applicable to  marketing authorisation holders - Final arrangement s   Marketing authorisation  procedure  Origin  Adverse  reaction type  Destination  Time   frame    Centralised    Mutual recognition,  decentr alised or  subject to referral    Purely national  EU All serious   EudraVigilance database  15 days   All non -serious   EudraVigilance database  90 days   Non-EU All serious   EudraVigilance database  15 days     VI.App3.2.2 . Final arrangement sApp.3.23. Requirements  applicable to  competent authorities in Member States   Table VI.7. Table VI.8.  ICSRs submission  requirements Reporting requirements applicable to  competent authorities in Member States - Final arrangement s  Marketing authorisation  procedure  Origin  Adverse  reaction type  Destination  Time   frame    Centralised     Mutual recognition,  decentralised or  subject to referral     Purely national  EU All serious   EudraVigilance database  15 days   All non-serious   EudraVigilance database  90 days        Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 152/225     VI.App3App.3.34 Transmis sion and r Rerouting of ICSRs to comp etent  authorities in Member States  91 of ICSRs  submitted to EudraVigilance by  marketing authorisation holders   Figure VI.3. Figure VI.4.  Business process map - Transmission and r Rerouting of ICSRs to  competent authorities in Member States  (NCAs) of ICSRs submitted to EudraVigilance by marketing  authorisation holders (MAHs) . See steps description in Table VI.9.                                                    91 Once the functionalities of the EudraVigilance database specified in [REG Art 24 (2)] are established.      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practice s (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 153/225      MAH EMA NCASubmit  valid ICSR:  all EEA & all  serious  non-EEA EudraVigilance Technical  validation  (business  rules) ICSR stored  in EVStart  Reporter 1 ACK  message  sent to  MAHReceive   ACK  messageIs ICSR ACK  positive? EndCorrect  ICSRResubmit  corrected  ICSR to EV Was ICSR ACK  positive? EndAwait  corrected  ICSRNo Yes No Yes37 8 9 8.19.1 Is ICSR from EEA?No 1816Technical  validation  (business  rules) ICSR stored  in NCA  databaseACK  message  sent to EV 17 19ICSR Message  ReroutingICSR ACK EEA ICSR  processingMAH database NCA database EndCreate ICSR ICSR Message  DeliveryICSR Message  Delivery ICSR ACK 5 10 126 12.1 1311.1ADR  Report 2 4 11 14EEA ICSR  sent to  relevant  NCA 15Yes Was ICSR ACK  positive?Await  corrective  action 19.1 20No Yes       Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 154/225     Table VI.8. Table VI.9.  Process description - Transmission and r Rerouting of ICSRs to competent  authorities in Member States  (NCAs) 92of ICSR s submitted to EudraVigilance by marketing  authorisation holders  (MAHs) . See process map in Figure VI.5.   No. Name  Description  Responsible  Organisation   1 Start.   Receive report . Receipt by the MAH of a report of a suspected  adverse reaction related to a medic ine al  product (ADR report) . Go to step 2.  MAH  2 Create ICSR .Open  case. Open and c Create an individual case safety report   (ICSR) . Go to step 3.  MAH  3 Send Submit valid  ICSR to  EudraVigilance ( EV). Submit  the valid ICSR (EEA and non -EEA serious,  and E EA non-serious) to EudraVigilance (EV)   Transmit the case electronically, in ICH -E2B(R2 /R3)  format as an xmlXML message within the relevant  time frames (15 or 90 days, as applicable) , to EV.  Non-serious non -EEA ICSRs should not be submitted  to EV. Go to step 4 .  Proceed as outlined in VI.App.1.1 . if the ICSR is not  valid.   See guidance in the EU ICSR Implementation Guide  (EMA/51938/2013 ) in case of system failure in safety  message generation, submission , rece ipt, processing   and rerouting . MAH  4 Message r Receive d  in EV. Receive the message in the EV. Go to step 5.  EMA  5 Technical Va lidation  (EV Business Rules) . Every message that is received in EV is validated  against the EudraVigilance Business Rules and an  Acknowledgement message (ACK) is created  specifying whether or not the message & and the  ICSRcase(s) therein are valid.    The ac knowledgement message is sent to the MAH  (Go to step 6) .  - E2B(R2) messages will receive an E2B(R2)  acknowledgement .  -  and an E2B(R3) message will receive an E2B(R3)  acknowledgement.      - A valid correct  message E2B(R2) ICSR  will have an  E2B(R2) ACK code 01 . (ACK_ B.1.8).    - An non-valid message E2B(R2) ICSR  not correct  will have an E2B(R2) ACK code 02   (if a case EMA                                                   92 Once the functionalities of the EudraVigilance database specified in [REG Art 24(2)] are established.      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 155/225     No. Name  Description  Responsible  Organisation   contained therein is (ACK_B.1.8).     An non-valid) or 03  E2B(R2) message will receive   a an 03 transmision transmission   acknowledgement code 03 (ACK_A.1.6)   (if the  message itself is not correctly formatted ).  -   - A correct valid E2B(R3) ICSR will have an  E2B(R3) ACK code “ CA” (ACK.B.r.6).   - An non-valid E2B(R3) ICSR not correct will have  an E2B(R3) ACK code “CR” (ACK.B.r.6).   - An non-valid E2B(R3) message will receive a n  “AR” transmision transmission  acknowledgement  code “AR” (ACK.A.4)   (if the message itself is not  correctly formatted ).  6 ACK message sent . The acknowledgement message created in step 5 is  transmitted to the MAH no later than 2 business days  followi ng the receipt of the ICSR.  Go to step 10  for EMA’s next step .  Go to step 7  for MAH ’s next step.  EMA  6 Store in EV . Once the case has been validated, it is stored in EV. EMA  7 Send ACK . The acknowledgement message created in step 5 is  transmitted to the case sender  no later than 2  business days following receipt of the case. EMA  7.17 Receive ACK   message . Receive the ACK message ., Aassociate it with the  relevant ICSR case(s) and check to ensure that the  case it was considered valid.  Go to step 8.  MAH  7.28 Was Is a  positive ICSR ACK  code  01received positive ? Is a positive acknowledgement code received  for the  ICSR?  If Yes, go to step 7.2.8.1.  If no, then the regulatory timeline clock has not  stopped and the ICSRcase should be corrected and  re-transmitted to EV within the relevant regulatory  reporting timelines. Day 0 remains as the day that  the first information was received. Go to step 9 to  correct the ICSR.A  Neither a n ICSR not correct (E2B(R2) ACK code  02 or  E2B(R3) ACK code “CR”) , nor a message not correc t  (E2B(R2)  transmission acknowledgement code  03  ACK does not constitute or E2B(R3) transmission  acknowledgement code “AR” transmision MAH     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 156/225     No. Name  Description  Responsible  Organisation   acknowledgement code ) constitute s new  information. Go to step 7.2.2 (Correct case) .  7.2. 18.1 End. End the process of tr ansmitting this version of the  ICSRcase to EV. Normal follow -up activities should  continue and if any follow -up is received, return to  step 1.  MAH  7.2. 29 Correct ICSRcase. Correct the ICSRcase to remove the errors identified  in the ACK . Go to step 9.1.  and retransmit the case  to EV  (go back to step 3) . MAH  9.1 Resubmit corrected  ICSR.  Resubmit the corrected ICSR to EV.   Go back to step 4 for the receipt of the corrected  ICSR in EV.  MAH  10 ICSR s tored in EV.  Once the ICSR has been technically validated  (step  5) and the acknowledgement message is transmitted  to the MAH (step 6) , the ICSR  is stored in EV. Go to  step 11.  EMA  11 Was ICSR ACK   positive ?  Did the technical validation of the ICSR in step 5  create a positive ACK code?   If no, perform no further proc essing on this version  of the ICSR and go to step 11.1  If Yes, go to step 12. EMA  8 Was a positive ACK  code 01received ? If yes, go to step 9.  If no, perform no further processing on this version  of the case and go to step 8.1 EMA  811. 1 Await corrected  ICSRcase. The sender should correct every case with an error  ACK and retransmit it within the regulatory reporting  timelines. Periodically the EMA should assess all  cases with an error ACK for which a corrected case  has not been transmitted and contact the Qualified  Person responsible for PharmacoVigilance  (QPPV) sender  to inform of these missing corrected  cases. If a sender fails to correct cases, his  information should be incorporated into data quality  assessments and the appropriate committees should  be inf ormed .The sender should correct every ICSR  with an error ACK and retransmit it within the  appropriate regulatory timelines.   EMA periodically assess es all ICSRs with an error ACK  for which a corrected version  has not been  transmitted and contact the sender  to inform of these EMA     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 157/225     No. Name  Description  Responsible  Organisation   missing corrected ICSRs. If a sender fails to correct  the ICSRs , this information is incorporated into data  quality assessments  and the appropriate committee  is informed.   ICSR stored in EV (step 10 ) while waiting for  corrected version. Go back to step 4  upon receipt of  the corrected ICSR.  912 Assess cases in  message .Is ICSR  from EEA?  Whenever a message has passed the technical  validation  (step 11) , the ICSRcases therein should  beare immediately assessed to determine the  primary sour ce country where the reaction occurred  for regulatory reporting purposes .  Is the ICSR from EEA?   If Yes, go to step 1 3.  If No, go to step 12.1. EMA  10 Was case from EU? For every case, assess whether the country of  occurrence is in the EU.  If Yes, go to st ep 11 .  If No, go to step 10.1  EMA  1012 .1 End. The ICSRcase is now stored in EV  .   It is &, following duplicate detection &  recoding  will  be available for signal detection and data quality  analyses  following  duplicate detection and recoding . EMA  1113 EEA ICSR processing  for rerouting .  Extract cases from  message . The ICSRcases occurring in the EEAEU will be  are  extracted from the message for processing prior to  retransmission  to the relevant NCA .  For the retransmission of E2B(R2) messages the  ‘Message sende r identifier ’ (ICH E2 B(R2) M.1.5) of  the sending  MAH is inserted in data element ‘ Sender  organisation ’ (ICH-E2B(R2) A.3.1.2) prior to  retransmission. This is to permit the receiving  National Competent Authority (NCA) to  unambiguously identify the MAH respo nsible for  transmitting the ICSR to EV.   For the retransmission of E2B(R3) messages the data  element N.2.r.2  ‘Message sender identifier ’ remains  unchanged with the MAH identifier .  Go to step 14.   See guidance in the EU ICSR Implementation Guide EMA     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 158/225     No. Name  Description  Responsible  Organisation   (EMA/51938/2013 ) in case of system failure in safety  message generation, submission , rece ipt, processing   and rerouting .  12 Techn ical Validation.  For the retransmission of E2B(R2) messages the  ‘Message sender identifier identifier ’ (ICH M2E2B(R2)  M.1.5) of reporting MAH is inserted in  data element  ‘Sender organisation field organisation ’ (ICH-E2B(R2)  A.3.1.2) prior to retransmission.  This is to permit the  receiving National Competent Authority (NCA) to  unambiguously identify the MAH responsible f or  transmitting the case to EV.   For the retransmission of E2B(R3) messages the data  element N.2.r.2  ‘Message sender identifier ’ will  remain  unchanged  EMA  1314 ICSR sSentd to  relevant NCA . The ICSRcase is transmitted to the r elevant NCA of  the Member State where the reaction occurred with  no other changes.   Where a Member State has more than one NCA  responsible for post -marketing reports, the  ICSRcases occurring in that Member State are sent  to all relevant NCAs.  Go to step 15.  EMA  145 Receive in  PharmacoVigilance  DataBase (PhV  DB).Message   received in NCA  database . Message with The relevant NCA receive s the message  in its PhV DB EEA ICSR s are received in the relevant  NCA database . Go to step 16.  NCA  156 Technical Validation  (EV Business Rules) . Every message should be validated against the  EudraVigilance Business Rules (the same business  rules as in Step step 5 and an Acknowledgement  message (ACK)  is created specifying whether or not  the message & and the ICSRcases therein are valid.    The acknowledgement message is sent to EV (step  17).     A valid message ICSR will have an E2B(R2)  ACK code  01. or E2B(R3) ACK code “CA”.  A non -valid  message ICSR will ha ve an E2B(R2) ACK code 02 (if a  case contained therein is or E2B(R3) ACK code “CR”.   A non-valid) or 03  message will receive a n E2B(R2)  03 or E2B(R3) “AR”  transmision acknowledgement  code (if the message itself is not correctly NCA     Guideline on good pharmacovi gilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 159/225     No. Name  Description  Responsible  Organisation   formatted ).  - A correct  E2B(R2) ICSR will have an E2B(R2) ACK  code 01 (ACK_B.1.8).   - An E2B(R2) ICSR not correct will have an E2B(R2)  ACK code 02 (ACK_B.1.8).   - An E2B(R2) message not correct will receive a  transmission acknowledgement code 03  (ACK_A.1.6) if the message is not correctly  formatted.   - A correct  E2B(R3) ICSR will have an E2B(R3) ACK  code “CA” (ACK.B.r.6).   - An E2B(R3) ICSR not correct will have an E2B(R3)  ACK code “CR” (ACK.B.r.6).   - An E2B(R3) message not correct will receive a  transmission acknowledgement code “AR”  (ACK.A.4) if the message is not correctly  formatted.   16 Store  in  PharmacoVigilance  DataBase (PhV DB) . Once the case has been valida ted, it is stored in the  PhV DB . NCA  1717 Send ACK message  sent. The acknowledgement message created in step 15  16 is transmitted to  EV within 2 business days  following the receipt of the ICSR  no later than 2  business days following receipt of the case. Go to  step 18.  NCA  18 ICSR stored.  The ICSR is stored in the NCA database . Go to step  19. NCA  19 Was ICSR ACK  positive?  Did the tec hnical validation of the ICSR in step 16  create a positive ACK code?   If no go to step 19.1.  If yes go to step 2 0. NCA  19.1 Await corrective  action . The concerned NCA with negative acknowledgement  is contacted by EMA to resolve the technical issues   and the  message is retransmitted if needed .  The ICSR is stored in the NCA database (step 18  while waiting for a corrected version). Go back to  step 15 upon receipt of the corrected ICSR. NCA  17.1 20 End. The ICSRcase is now stored in the NCA’s NCA  database. It is PharmacoVigilance DataBase &,   available for signal detection and data quality NCA     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 160/225     No. Name  Description  Responsible  Organisation   analyses following  duplicate detection & recoding . will  be available for signal detection and data quality  analyses.   18 Receive ACK  The acknowledgement message sent in  step 17 is received  & stored in EV.  EMA  19 End The case has now been successfully  retransmitted to the relevant NCA.  EMA       Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 161/225     VI. Appendix 4 Transmission Submission  of ICSRs to the  World Health Organi zation Organi sation (WHO)93  Figure VI.4. Figure VI.5.  Business process map - Transmission Submission  of ICSRs to the World  Health Organi zation (WHO) Collaborating Centre  for International Drug Monitoring . See steps  description in Table VI.10.                                                    93 Once the functionalities of the EudraVigilance database specified in [REG Art 24(2)] are established.      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 162/225      NCA/MAH EMA WHOSubmit  valid ICSR:  all EEA & all  serious  non-EEA EudraVigilance Technical  validation  (business  rules) ICSR stored  in EVStart  Reporter 1 ACK  message  sent to  senderReceive   ACK  messageIs ICSR ACK  positive? EndCorrect  ICSRResubmit  corrected  ICSR to EV Was ICSR ACK  positive? EndAwait  corrected  ICSRNo Yes No Yes37 8 9 8.19.1 Are ICSRs from  EEA?No 1816Technical  validation ICSRs  stored in  WHO  databaseStatus code  sent to EMA17 19ICSR Message  ReroutingICSR ACK EEA ICSRs  processingNCA/MAH  database WHO database EndCreate ICSR ICSR Message  DeliveryICSR Message  Delivery ICSR ACK 5 10 126 12.1 1311.1ADR  Report 2 4 11 14EEA ICSRs  sent to  WHO 15Yes Was status code  positive?Await  corrective  action 19.1 20No Yes        Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 163/225     Table VI.9. Table VI.10.  Process description - Transmission Submissio n of ICSRs  to the World  Health Organisation (WHO) Collaborating Centre  for International Drug Monitoring . See process map in  Figure VI.6.94  No. Step Description  Responsible  Organisation   1 Start.   Receive report . Receipt by the NCA or the MAH of a report of a  suspected adverse reaction related to a  medicin e al product (ADR report) . Go to step  2.National Competent Authority (NCA) or  Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) receives  information on a suspected adverse reaction  from a patient, healthcare professional  or other  valid reporter.  MAH/ NCA/MA H  2 Create ICSR. Open  case. Open and c Create an individual case safety report   (ICSR) . Go to step 3.  MAH/NCA/MAH   3 Send Submit valid  ICSR to EV . Submit the valid ICSR (E EA and non -EEA serious,  and E EA non-serious) to Eud raVigilance (EV)  Transmit the case electronically, in ICH -E2B(R 2/R3)  format as an xmlXML message  within the relevant  time frames (15 or 90 days, as applicable) , to  EudraVigilance  (EV).. Non-serious non -EEA ICSRs  should not be submitted to EV.  Go to step 4 .  Proceed as outlined in VI.App.1.1 . if the ICSR is not  valid.   See guidance in the EU ICSR Implementation Guide  (EMA/51938/2013 ) in case of system failure in safety  message generation, submission , rece ipt, processing   and rerouting . MAH/ NCA/MAH   4 Message r Receive d  in EV. Receive the message in EV. Go to step 5.  EMA  5 Technica l Validation  (EV Business Rules) . Every message that is received in EV is validated  against the EudraVigilance Business Rules and an  Acknowledgement message (ACK) is created  specifying whether or not the message & and the  ICSRcase(s) therein are valid.    The acknowledgement message is sent to the sender  (step 6).   - E2B(R2) messages will receive an E2B(R2)  acknowledgement .  - E2B(R3) message will receive an E2B(R3)  acknowledgement.   - A correct E2B(R2) ICSR will have an E2B(R2) ACK EMA                                                   94 Once the functionalities of the EudraVigilance database specified in [REG Art 24 (2)] are established.      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 164/225     No. Step Description  Responsible  Organisation   code 01 (ACK_B.1.8).   - An E2B(R2) IC SR not correct will have an E2B(R2)  ACK code 02  (ACK_B.1.8).   - An E2B(R2) message will receive  a transmission  acknowledgement code 03 (ACK_A.1.6)  if the  message is not correctly formatted.   - A correct  E2B(R3) ICSR will have an E2B(R3) ACK  code “ CA” (ACK.B.r.6 ).   - An E2B(R3) ICSR not correct will have an E2B(R3)  ACK code “CR” (ACK.B.r.6).   - An E2B(R3) message will receive a transmission  acknowledgement code “AR” (ACK.A.4) if the  message is not correctly formatted.    E2B(R2) messages will receive an E2B(R2)  acknowl edgement and an E2B(R3) message will  receive an E2B(R3) acknowledgement. A valid  message E2B(R2) ICSR  will have an E2B(R2) ACK  code 01 . (ACK_B.1.8).  A non -valid message E2B(R2)  ICSR will have an E2B(R2) ACK code 02  (if a case  contained therein is (ACK_B.1.8).  A non-valid) or 03   message will receive an 03 transmision   acknowledgement code (ACK_A.1.6)  (if the message  itself is not correctly formatted ).  A valid E2B(R3) ICSR will have an E2B(R3) ACK code  “CA” (ACK.B.r.6). A non -valid E2B(R3) ICSR will  have an E2B(R 3) ACK code “CR” (ACK.B.r.6). A non - valid message will receive an “AR”  transmision   acknowledgement code (ACK.A.4)  (if the message  itself is not correctly formatted ).  6 ACK message  sent.Store in EV . The acknowledgement message created in step 5 is  transmitted to the sender  no later than 2 business  days following the receipt of the ICSR.   Go to step 10 for EMA’s next step.   Go to step 7 for NCA/MAH’s next step. Once the case  has been validated, it is stored in EV. EMA  7 Send ACK . The acknowledgement messa ge created in step 5 is  transmitted to the case sender  no later than 2  business days following receipt of the case. EMA  7.1 Receive ACK   messag e. Receive the ACK message ,. Aassociate it with the  relevant ICSRcase(s) and check to ensure that the  ICSRcase was considered valid.  MAH/ NCA/MAH      Guideline on  good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 165/225     No. Step Description  Responsible  Organisation   7.28 Was a positive Is  ICSR ACK code  01received positive ? Is a positive acknowledgement code received  for the  ICSR?  If Yes, go to step 7.28.1.  If no, then the regulatory timeline clock has not  stopped and the ICSRcase should  be corrected and  re-transmitted to EV within the relevant regulatory  reporting timelines. Day 0 remains as the day that  the first information was received . Go to step 9 to  correct  the ICSR.  ANeither a n ICSR not correct (E2B(R2) ACK code  02  or E2B(R3) ACK code “CR”) , nor a message not  correct (E2B(R2) transmission acknowledgement  code 03 ACK does not constitute or E2B(R3)  transmission acknowledgement code “AR”  transmision acknowledgement code ) constitute s new  information . Go to step 7.2.2 (Correct case) . MAH/NCA/MAH   7.28 .1 End. End the process of transmitting this version of the  ICSRcase to EV. Normal follow -up activities should  continue and if any follow -up is received, return to  step 1.  MAH/ NCA/MAH   7.2. 29 Correct ICSR.case Correct the ICSRcase to remove t he errors identified  in the  ACK and retransmit the case to EV (go back to  step 3) . Go to step 9.1.  MAH/ NCA/MAH   9.1 Resubmit corrected  ICSR.  Resubmit the corrected ICSR to EV.   Go back to step 4 for the receipt of the corrected  ICSR in EV.  NCA/MAH   10 ICSR stored in EV.  Once the ICSR has been technically validated  (step  5) and the acknowledgement message is transmitted  to the MAH (step 6) , the ICSR  is stored in EV. Go to  step 11.  EMA  811 Was a positive ICSR  ACK  code  01?received positive ? ? Did the technical v alidation of the ICSR in step 5  create a positive ACK code?   If yes, go to step 9   If no, perform no further processing on this version  of the ICSRcase and go to step 811.1.  If Yes, go to step 12.  EMA  811. 1 Await corrected  ICSRcase. The sender should correc t every ICSRcase with an  error ACK and retransmit it within the appropriate  regulatory reporting timelines. Periodically the EMA  should assess all cases with an error ACK for which a EMA     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 166/225     No. Step Description  Responsible  Organisation   corrected case has not been transmitted and contact  the Qualified Person r esponsible for  PharmacoVigilance (QPPV)  to inform of these missing  corrected cases.  EMA periodically assess es all ICSRs   with an error ACK for which a corrected version  has  not been transmitted and contact the sender  to  inform of these missing corrected ICSRs. If a sender  fails to correct  the ICSRcases, this information should  beis incorporated into data quality assessments and  the appropriate committee s should be  is informed.   The ICSR is stored in EV (step 10) while waiting for a  corrected version. Go back  to step 4  upon receipt of  the corrected ICSR.  912 Is ICSR from  EEA?Assess cases in  message.  Once a week, for every message that has passed the  technical validation, the ICSRcases therein should  beare assessed to determine the country where the  reacti on occurred for regulatory reporting purposes.   Is the ICSR from EEA?   If Yes, go to step 1 3.  If No, go to step 12.1. EMA  10 Was case from EU?  For every case, assess whether the country of  occurrence is in the EU.   If Yes, go to step 11.   If No, go to step 10 .1. EMA  101 2.1 End. The ICSRcase is now stored in EV . &, following  duplicate detection & recoding will be It is available  for signal detection and data quality analyses   following  duplicate detection and recoding . EMA  111 3 EEA ICSR  processing . Extract  cases from message  Prior to sending the ICSRs to the World Health  Organi zation (WHO) Collaborating Centre  for  International Drug Monitoring , theThe ICSRscases  occurring in the EU EEA is are extracted from the  message for processing prior to retransmission in line  with the EudraVigilance Access Policy for Medicines  for Human Use95. Go to step 14.  EMA  12 Redact &  replace Extract  data  in line with EV Data Prior to sending the cases to the World Health  Organi zation (WHO) Collaborating Centre  for  Intern ational Drug Monitoring , the cases are EMA                                                   95 Ref.: EMA/759287/2009 ; EMA website: Home/ Human regulatory/ Post -authorisation/ Pharmacovigilance/  EudraVigilance/ Access to data .     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 167/225     No. Step Description  Responsible  Organisation   Access policy.  extracted copies of the cases have some data  elements redacted and replaced in line with the EV  Data Access Policy  in order to ensure personal data  protection .  131 4 CopySend  ICSRcases to  physical media sent  throug h the VigiBase  APto WHO I . The ICSRscases are copied to physical media. sent  through the VigiBase API  which returns a messageID  for each file submitted . Go to step 15.  EMA  14 Send to WHO.  The physical media is sent to WHO Collaborating  Centre.  EMA  151 45 Message  rReceive d  physical media Cases  by WHO . The submitted m essage with the EEA ICSR s is  received by  WHO Collaborating Centre  receives the  physical media cases. A Message ID for each  submitted file is created  and sent back to. EMA. Go  to step 16.  WHO  16 Technical Validation . Technical validation is performed on the submitted  ICSRs.  A status code is recorded for each message.   Go to step 17.  WHO  17 Status code sent  to  EMA. The message s tatus code created  in step 16 is  transmitted to EMA with the c orrespondin g Message  ID. Go to step 18.  WHO  161 58 Store cases in  PharmacoVigilance  DataBase (PhV  DB).ICSRs stored  in  WHO database . Once the ICSRcases have been validated, they are  stored in the PhV WHO database DB. A status code is  recorded for each  message . Go to s tep 19.  WHO  16 EMA Checks status  of ICSR Messages  EMA uses the messageID to check the status code of  each submitted message.  EMA  197 Was a positive   status code  received positive ? If yes, go to step 19Did the technical validation in  step 16 create a posit ive status  code?     If no, go to step 1 89.1.  If yes, go to step 20. EMAWHO  189. 1 Await corrective  action. Contact WHO  to resolve technical  issue WHO UMC is contacted by EMA to resolve  the  technical issue s. and the message is  If a message  needs to be  retrans mitted if needed. go to step 1 2,  if this is not required go to step 19  .ICSRs are stored in WHO database (step 18 while EMAWHO     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 168/225     No. Step Description  Responsible  Organisation   waiting for corrected version). Go back to step 15   upon receipt of the corrected ICSRs.  171 920 End. ICSRCases are now stored in the WHO Collaborating  Centre’s PharmacoVigilance D dataBbase &,  and  arefollowing duplicate detection & recoding will be   available for signal detection  and data quality  analyses . WHO       Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 169/225     VI. Appendix 5 Nullification of cases   General principles regarding the n ullification of cases are provided in VI.C.6.2.2.10 . The following  recommendation soutlined  in VI.C.6.2.2. 9.   Examples of scenarios for which ICSRs  should also be applied :be nullified , are provided in Table VI.1 3..  b. The value in the data element ‘Report nullification’ (ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.13) should be set to ‘Yes’  and the nullification reason should be provided in the data element  ‘Reason for nullification’   (ICH-EB(R2) A.1.13.1) . The nullification reason should be clear and concise to explain why this  case is no longer considered to be a valid report. For example a nullification reason stating,  ‘the report no longer meets the reporting criteria’ or ‘report sent previously in erro r’ are not  detailed enough explanations.   c. An individual case can only be nullified by the sending organisation.   d. Once an individual case has been nullified, the case cannot be reactivated.   e. If it becomes necessary to resubmit the case that has been previously  nullified, a new ‘Sender’s  (case) safety report unique identifier’ (ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.0.1) and ‘Worldwide unique case  identification number’ (ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.10) should be assigned.   f. Individual versions (i.e. follow -up reports) of a case cannot be nullified,  only the entire individual  case to which they refer .  Table VI.10. Table VI.11.  Examples of scenarios for which ICSRs cases  should be nullified   Ex. Scenario  Action   1 An individual case has been identified as  a duplicate of another individual case  previously submitted . by the same  sender . One of the individual cases should be nullified. The  remaining valid case should be updated with any  additional  relevant  information from the nullified  case.   NOTE: In case of duplicate reports where one  report needs to be nullified, the update of t he  remaining case should be performed in the form  of a follow -up report96. Information on the  identification of the nullified case(s) should be  provided  in the follow -up ICSR  (Section ICH- E2B(R2) A.1.11/  ICH-E2B(R3) C.1.9.1 ‘Other  case identifiers in previo us transmissions ’).  2 A wrong ‘Worldwide unique c ase  identification number’ (ICH -E2B(R2)  A.1.10 / ICH-E2B(R3) C.1.8.1 ) was  accidentally used and does not refer to  an existing case.  The case with the wrong ‘Worldwide unique c ase  identification number’ (ICH -E2B(R2) A.1.10 / ICH - E2B(R3) C.1.8.1 ) should be nullified .  A new case should be created with a correct  ‘Worldwide unique case identification number’.   3 On receipt of further information it is  confirmed that that the adverse  reaction (s) occurred before the suspect The case should be nullified.                                                    96 See guidance provided in GVP Module VI Addendum I – Duplicate management of adverse reaction reports .Guidelin e on  the Detection and Management of Duplicate Individual Cases and Individual Case Safety Reports (ICSRs) ,  EMA/13432/2009 .     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 170/225     Ex. Scenario  Action   drug(s) was taken.   4 On receipt of further information on an  individual case, it is confirmed that the  patient d id not receive the suspect  drug.(s). Minimum reporting criteria for   an ICSR submission as outlined in VI.B.2   are no longer met.  The case should be nullified.   5 On receipt of further information it is  confirmed by the same reporter that the  reported adverse reaction(s) did not  occur to the patient.  Minimum reporting   criteria for  an ICSR submission as  outlined in VI.B.2 are no longer met.  The case should be nullified.   6 On receipt of further information it is  confirmed that there was no  valididentifiable  patient for the indivi dual  case. The Mminimum reporting criteria  for an ICSR as outlined in VI.B.2  are no  longer met.  If it there  is confirmation in a follow -up report that  no patient was involved, not possible to  obtain  confirmation o fverify  the patient’s existence, then   the case should be nullified.   a. Individual cases that have been nullified Examples of scenarios for which ICSRs  should notNOT  be used for scientific evaluation , however , they should remain in the database for auditing  purposes.   In addition, in case of duplicate reports where one report needs to be nullified, the update of the  remaining case should be performed in the form of a follow -up report97. Information on the  identification of the nullified case(s) should be nullified , are provided in the data element ‘Source(s) of  the case identifier (e.g. name of the company, name of regulatory agency)’ (ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.11.1 )  and in the data element ‘Case identifier(s)’ (ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.11.2) .Table VI.1 4..  Table VI.11. Table VI.12.  Examples of scenarios for which ICSRs cases should NOT be nullified   Ex. Scenario  Action   7 A wrong ‘Worldwide unique case  identification number’ (ICH -E2B(R2)   A.1.10 / ICH -E2B(R3) C.1.8.1 ) was  accidentally used. This wrong ICH- E2B(R2)  A.1.10 ‘Worldwide unique case  identification num ber’ referred to ana  different existing case.  The report with the wrong ‘Worldwide unique case  identification number’ (ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.10 / ICH- E2B(R3) C.1.8.1 ) should not be nullified.   A follow -upAn amendment  report should be  submitted  to correct the infor mation previously  submitted.   A new ICSR should be created and submitted with  the correct ‘Worldwide unique case identification                                                   97 As presented in the Guideline on the Detection and Management of Duplicate Individual Cases and Individual Case Safety  Reports (ICSRs) , EMA/13432/2009 .     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 171/225     Ex. Scenario  Action   number’.   8 On receipt of further information on an  individual case, it is confirmed that the  patient did not receive the marketi ng  authorisation holder ’s suspect  drugmedicinal product . However, the  patient received another suspect ed  drugsproduct (active substance )  previously not reported  and the  minimum reporting criteria for  an ICSR  submission  are still met.  The case should not be  nullified.    A follow -up should be submitted within the  appropriate time fram e with the updated information  on the case .   The case narrative should clearly indicate that the  patient did not receive the company’s medicinal  product.   The new suspected medici nal product (active  substance) should be  specified  in section  ‘Drug  information ’ (ICH-E2B(R2) B.4/ ICH-E2B(R3) G.k) of  the ICSR . Further, i t is recommended that the initial  sender informs the other marketing authorisation  holder  about this case (including the ‘Worldwide  Unique Case Identification Number’ (ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.10  / ICH -E2B(R3) C.1.8.1) .   The other concerned marketing authorisation holder  should create a new case and specify the reference  case number and the name of the initial sending  marketing a uthorisation holder (ICH-E2B(R2) section  A.1.11 / ICH -E2B(R3) section C.1.11).   9 On receipt of further information the  reporter has confirmed that the reported  adverse reaction is no longer considered  to be related to the suspect medicinal  product (s). The case should not be nullified.   A follow -up report should be submitted within the  appropriate time  frame with the updated information  on the case.    ICH-E2B(R2):  Section B.4.k.18 ‘Relatedness of  drug to reaction(s)/event(s) (repeat B.4.k.18.1  through B.4.k.18 .4 as necessary) ’ should be  populated as necessary.    ICH-E2B(R3 ): Section G.k.9.i ‘Drug- reaction(s)/ Event(s) Matrix (repeat as  necessary) ’ should be populated as necessary.   10 Change of the individual case from  serious to non -serious (downgrading).  The ca se should not be nullified.   A follow -up report or an amendment report  (depending on whether new information was  received or not) should be submitted  with:   ICH-E2B(R2):  the data element  A.1.5.1  ‘Seriousness’ (ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.5.1) should be   populated with th e value  ‘No’ without selection  of a value for the data element  A.1.5.2     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 172/225     Ex. Scenario  Action   ‘Seriousness criteria’  (ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.5.2) .   . The data element  A.1.9 ‘Does this case fulfil  the local criteria for an expedited report?’ (ICH- E2B(R2)  field A.1.9) should remain populat ed  with the value  ‘Yes’.   ICH-E2B(R3 ): the data element E.i.3.2  ‘Seriousness  Criteria at Event Level ’ should not  be populated if the reaction is not serious.  The  data element C.1.7 ‘Does This Case Fulfil the  Local Criteria for an Expedited Report? ’ should  remain populated with the value ‘Yes’.   11 The primary source country has  changed, which has an impact on the   ICH-E2B(R2)  convention regarding the  creation of the ‘Worldwide unique case  identification number’  (ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.10 )./ICH-E2B(R3) C1.8.1 ). The c ase should not be nullified.    TheICH-E2B(R2):  The data element A.1.0.1   ‘Sender’s (case) safety report unique identifier’  (ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.0.1) can be updated on the  basis of the new primary source country code.  However, the data element A.1.10 ‘Worldwide  unique case identification number’ (ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.10) should remain unchanged.     If, for some technical reason , the sender’s local  system is not fully ICH-E2B(R2)  compliant and  cannot follow apply  this policy, then the sender  should nullify the original case . A new case  should be created using the data element A.1.10   with a new ‘Worldwide unique case identification  number’ (ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.10)  reflecting the  changed primary source country code. The  ‘Worldwide unique case identification number’  (ICH-E2B(R2) A. 1.10) of the case that was  nullified should be reflected in the data  elements section  A.1.11 ‘Other case identifiers in  previous transmissions ’ (ICH-E2B(R2) A.1. 11)..   ICH-E2B(R3 ): The data element C.1.1   ‘Sender’s (Case) Safety Report Unique I dentifier’  can be updated on the basis of the new primary  source country code. However, the data element  C.1.8.1  ‘Worldwi de Unique Case Identification  Number’ should remain unchanged.  If, for some  technical reason  the sender’s local system  cannot apply  this policy, then the sender should  nullify the original case. A new case should be  created using the data element C.1.8.1 with a  new ‘Worldwide Unique Case Identification  Number’ reflecting the changed primary source     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 173/225     Ex. Scenario  Action   country code. The ‘Worldwide unique case  identification number’ of the case that was  nullified should be reflected in the data elements  C.1.9.1  ‘Other Case Identifiers in Previous  Transmissions’.   12 The suspected medicinal product  belongs  to another marketing authorisation  holder  (e.g. a product with the same  active substance but marketed under a  different invented name).  The case should not be nullified.   It is recommended that the initial sender informs the  other marketing authorisation holder  about this case  (including the ‘Worldwide unique case identificatio n  number’ Unique Case Identification Number’  (ICH- E2B(R2) A.1.10 ) used/ ICH-E2B(R3) C.1.8.1 ). The  original organisation should also submit a follow -up  report to provide this new information.   The other concerned marketing authorisation holder   should create a  new case and specify the reference  case number and the name of the initial sending  marketing authorisation holder  in the data elements   ‘Source(s) of the case identifier (e.g. name of the  company name of regulatory agency)’ (ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.11.1) and ‘Case  identifier(s)’ (ICH-E2B(R2)  A.1.11.2) . This will allow grouping  the cases in the  EudraVigilance database. (ICH-E2B(R2) section  A.1.11/  ICH-E2B(R3) section C.1.9.1 ‘Other case  identifiers in previous transmissions’ ).   13 The suspected medicinal product taken  received by the patient  does not belong  to the marketing authorisation holder   (same active substance, the invented  name is unknown and the report  originates from a country, where the  marketing authorisation holder  has no  marketing authorisation for the m edicinal  product in question).  The case should not be nullified.   The marketing authorisation holder  should submit a  follow -up report with this information within the  appropriate time  frame.   14 The case is mistakenly  reported submitted  by the marketing  authorisation holder  A although the  marketing authorisation holder  B as co - marketer is responsible for reporting the  submission of  the case.  The case should not be nullified.   An explanation should be sent by the marketing  authorisation holder  A to the co -marke ter marketing  authorisation holder  B that the case has already  been reported submitted . The marketing  authorisation holder  B should provide any additional  information on the case as a follow -up report with  the same ‘Worldwide unique case identification  numb er’ (ICH-E2B(R2) A.1.10 )./ ICH-E2B(R3)  C.1.8.1 ).     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 174/225          Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 175/225     VI. Appendix 6 Data quality monitoring of ICSRs transmitted  electronically   Figure VI.5. Figure VI.6.  Business process map  - DataReview of  quality monitoring and integrity  of  ICSRs transmitted electronically by the Agency in collabora tion with competent authorities in Member  States ( NCAs) and marketing authorisation holders  (MAHs ). See steps description in Table VI.13.        Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 176/225           Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 177/225      Start NCA 21 NCANCA 1-nICSRnICSRnICSRn EudraVigilance ICSRs quality  and integrity  review by  EMA EV quality  review report  sent to  organisationNCANCAMAH 1-nICSRnICSRnICSRn Need for  corrective  actions? End46 6.1 6.2No corrective  actions  required by  sender Record  outcome of  reviewYes NoCorrective  actions  required by  sender Review and  comment to  EMAIs meeting  required?Meeting is not  required by  EMA or  sender YesNo Meeting  organised by  EMA5 5.19 7 8.1 Meeting  minutes  drafted by  sender Approve  meeting  minutes8.2 8.3Approve  meeting  minutes 8.4Meeting is not  required by  EMA or  sender Minutes  approved by  EMA and  senderFinal minutes  recorded by  EMA and  senderCorrective  actions agreed  by sender10 Corrective  actions  implemented  by sender10.1 Sender inform  EMA about  outcomeEMA record  notification10.2 10.3 Are actions  implemented ?Approve  meeting  minutes8Meeting is  required by  EMA or  sender 11Corrective  actions  implemented  by sender EndCorrective  actions not  implemented  by senderReminder sent  by EMA to  reviewed  organisation13 13.112 12.13 Yes No     Guideline on good ph armacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 178/225     Table VI.12.  Process description - Data quality monitoring  of ICSRs transmitted electronically   Table VI.13.  The business map and process description describe a system where there is  a  separati on between a PharmacoVigilance D ataBase (PhV DB) holder , the PhV DB holder ’s data Quality  Assessors  (QA) and the PhV DB holder’s auditors; however  this is not mandatory and these functions  may be performed by the same people or groups.  Process description – Review of quality and integrity  of ICSRs by the Agency in collaboration with competent authorities in Member States ( NCAs ) and  marketing authori sation holders  (MAHs ). See process map in Figure VI. 7.   No.. Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation    11 Start ..   Decide upon  Sender to  evaluate . Rece ipt of ICSRs in EudraVigilance (EV)  from  sender organisations (NCAs and MAHs) with  obligations for the  submission of ICSRs related  to med icinal products  authorised in the EEA . Go  to step 2. Select one of the organisations that  has transmitted ICSRs to your database.   Inputs into this decision can incl ude, but need  not be limited to findings from previous  assessments and requests from  pharmacovigilance audits .Review of quality and  integrity of ICSRs by the Agency in  collaboration with NCAs and MAHs in EEA  Member States   PhV DB  holder EMA  21 Sample ICSRs  from  Sender .Receive  reports of suspected  drug adverse  reaction(s) from  NCAs and MAHs  Take a sample of ICSRs that were transmitted by the  selected sender ICSRs are received in electronic  format in EudraVigilance from sender organisations  with reporting obligations of suspected adverse  reactions  related to medicin es authorised in the EEA  QAEMA  32 Check for  dataReview of ICSRs  quality errors .and  integrity  review  by  EMA. Check the cases for data quality errors.   The cases should be assessed against appropriate  published standards and similar documents, for  example th e MedDRA Term Selection Points to  Consider document. A review of the quality, integrity  ,  and monitoring of compliance with reporting  timeframes as well as the use of terminologies , and  compliance with submission time frames  is  performed in accordance with the applicable SOP  and  WINs on the ICSRs  submitted to EV in accordance  with. :  3194 SOP - EudraVigilance individual case safety  report data quality checking (in draft)   3201 WIN - EudraVigilance how to check the quality  of the data (in draft) Go to step 3.  QAEMA  43 EV qWrite A EV  quality review  report The findings from the data quality assessment should  be collated into a single report. These can include QAEMA     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 179/225     No.. Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation    and send is sent to  PhV DB  holder .organisation . related checks, such as 15 -day reporting compliance,  whether  error reports are corrected and similar  statistical information. A draft report summarising the  outcome of the quality review outcome is sent by e- mail to the concerned sending organisation ( EU QPPV  for MAH/  NCA h Head of PhVPharmacovigilance   Department  or MAH EU QPPV  of NCA ) by e-mail. Go  to step 4.   53.1 4 Errors found? Are  corrective actions  required Need for  corrective actions ? Were any errors found during the analysis of the  cases?   Are corrective actions required by the organisation  being reviewed  (NCA/MAH) ?  If Yes, go to poinstept 45.   If No, go to stepstep 5.1 .  If Yes go to steps 5.2, 5.3 & 6 .point 106.  PhV DB  holder Organisa tion being  reviewed  (NCA/MAH )  4.5  Corrective action s  required. Corrective  actions are required  by organisation  being reviewed  Corrective actions are required by organisation being  reviewed . Go to step 5.1.  Organisation  being reviewed  (NCA/MAH)   545. 1 End.Review and  comment . If there were no errors found, then no f urther  action needs to be taken. The process can end  until the nex t time the sender is assessed.   The PhV DB  holder may choose to share this  information with the assessed sender and their  auditors who may wish to factor this in to  determinations of which sender to assess.  Review   the draft quality review report and provid e  comments to EMA within the requested time frame .  Go to step 7. PhV DB  holder Organisa tion being  reviewed  (NCA/MAH)   5.2 Highlight for PhV  audit. If the PhV DB holder’s organisation has an audit  department, any significant findings should always be  shared with them.  PhV DB holder   6 No corrective action s  required  by sender . No corrective actions  are required following the  quality review of the ICSRs submitted by the  concerned organisation . Go to step 6.1.  Organisation  being reviewed  (NCA/MAH)   6.1 Record o utcome of  review.  Record the outcome of the quality review report . Go  to step 6.2.  Organisation  being reviewed  (NCA/MAH)   6.2 End. End of the quality review procedure.  EMA/  Organisation  being reviewed     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 180/225     No.. Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation    (NCA/MAH)   57.2 .1 Prioritise for Audit. Is  mIs meeting  required ? Is there a need to organise a meeting between the  reviewed organisation and EMA?   The audit or inspections department should use the  information provided to them to feed into decisions  about prioritising organisations for audit or  inspection. If Yes , progress go to step 68.  If No, progres go s to step 79. EMA/ PhV DB  holder’s  auditors Organis ation being  reviewed  (NCA/MAH)   5.36 8 INPUT: Findings  from previous  assessments. A  Mmeeting is  required  by EMA or  sender .  Any errors found (or even lack thereof) sh ould be  incorporated into decisions about which senders to  evaluate & should also inform the performance of the  assessments (e.g. targeting particular types of case)  and the report (documenting whether previously  identified issues have been addressed). A review  meeting is requested by the Ssender Oorganisation  or is proposed by EMA . Go to step 8.1.  PhV DB  holder EMA/  Organisation  being reviewed  (NCA/MAH)   68.1 A Mmeeting is  organised  by EMA .  A meeting is organised (via TC or face -to-face). Go  to step 8.2.  EMA  68.2 Inform sender Draft  Meeting minutes   drafted by sender . of  findings. the meeting   Inform the sender of the findings, including  requested remedial actions (e.g. retransmitting  certain cases) and time frames for those  actions Agreed actions and outcome o f discussions to  be summarised in draft meeting minutes . Go to step  8.3.   PhV DB  holder Organisati on being  reviewed  (NCA/MAH)   68.3 Approve meeting  mMinutes  approved  by EMA and sender . Approve the meeting minutes as final . Go to step  8.4. EMA/  Organisation   being reviewed  (NCA/MAH)   68.4 Record final Final  mminutes  recorded  by EMA and sender .  Record the final meeting minutes . Go to step 10. EMA/  Organisation  being reviewed  (NCA/MAH)   6.5 End    79 Request A meeting ?  is NOTnot required   by EMA or sender .  The sender should have the option to choose to  request a meeting to discuss the findings and  appropriate remedial action and time frames.   If noNo review  meeting is required ( requested , go to  step 7.1. If a meeting is requested go to step  by the  Ssender Oorganisation or proposed by EMA) .   Proceed with Go to  pointstep 810. EMA/  Organisation  being reviewed  (NCA/MAH) Sen der     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 181/225     No.. Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation    7.18 10 Address the findings  & retransmit any  required cases. Agree  onC corrective  measure actions s/tim eframes  agreed  by  sender . The Address all fi ndings, take necessary steps to  prevent recurrence of such findings & retransmit any  required cases. Reach agreement on corrective  measures actions / and time frames  are agreed by the  sending organisation being reviewed. ; outcome of  tThe agreement is to be r eflected on the basis of the  final quality review report, which is to be recorded .  Go to step 10.1.  Sender Organisa tion being  reviewed  (NCA/MAH)   108. 1 Implement  cCorrective  measures actions   implemented by  sender . The sending organisation should Iimplement t he  corrective measure action s in accordance with the  agreed methods and time  frames . Go to step 10. 2. Organisation  being reviewed  (NCA/MAH)   7810 .2 End.Sender i Inform  EMA about outcome . Once all findings have been addressed, the  necessary steps taken to pre vent recurrence of  such findings and any required cases have been  retransmitted, the process can end until the  next time the sender is assessed. Inform EMA  when the corrective measure action s have been  implemented in line with  the final quality review  report . Go to step 10.3.   Sender Organis ation being  reviewed  (NCA/MAH)   810. 3 Have meeting. REMA  record  notification and  monitor outcome .  Upon request from one party, a meeting should be  held to discuss the findings of quality assessments  and appropriate remedial and preventive actions to  ensure that the cases in the database are correct and  shall be so in the future. Record The notification of  implementation of the corrective action s in line with  the final quality review report  is recorded by the  Agency . Go to step  11. and monitor the  implementation the agreed corrective measures  PhV DB holder  & Sender EMA  98.4 11 End.Have Are  corrective  measure action s  implemented? been  applied?  Have the agreed corrective action s been  implemented by the sending organisation? EMA  Unless further action has monitor s and Cchecks if the  agreed corrective measure action s have  been  specified (e.g. future meetings or  assessments), implemented .  by the organisation     If Yes,  the process canwill end until the next time  the sender is assessed   If No, proceed go to step 912.  If Yes,  go to step 1 3. PhV DB  holder EMA     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 182/225     No.. Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation    12 Corrective actions  not implemented  by  sender . The agreed corrective actions have not been  implemented by the sending organisation.  Go to step  12.1 Organisation  being reviewed  (NCA/MAH)   912. 1 Send reminder to  organisation being  reviewed Reminder  sent by EMA to  reviewed  organisation.  Send reminder to the sending organisation being  reviewed to implement corrective measure action s.  Go back to step 10.1.  and proceed with point 8.4 EMA  13 Corre ctive actions  implemented.  The agreed corrective action s have been  implemented by the  sending  organisation .  Go to  step 13.1  Organisation  being reviewed  (NCA/MAH)   13.1 End. The ICSRs quality review procedure ends.  EMA/  Organisation  being reviewed  (NCA/MAH )  10 Corrective Measures are  NOT required  The quality review did not reveal  any corrective measures    10.1 Record outcome   EMA/Organisation being  reviewed   10.2 End          Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 183/225     VI. Appendix 7 Duplicate detection and management of ICSRs   VI.App. 7.1 Duplicate Ddetection in EudraVigilance – Collaboration between  the Agency, competent authorities in Member States and MAHs marketing  authorisation holders  where - dDuplicate  ICSR s originate from submitted to  EudraVigilance by  the same sender  and identified by the Agency   Figure VI.6. Figure VI.7.  Business process map - Duplicate detection and management of  ICSRs DDetection (DD) in EudraVigilance – Collaboration between the Agency, competent authorities in  Member States (NCAs) and marketing authorisation holders ( MAHs ) where - dDuplicate  ICSRs originat e  fromsubmitted to EudraVigilance  by the same sende r and identified by the Agency . See steps  description in Table VI.14.      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 184/225           Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practice s (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 185/225      EudraVigilance  DD  Algorithm EMA  DD Management Process Duplicates  Same sender? EndProceed as  outlined in Fig  VI.9 (DD  different  senders)Start Yes NoYes NoEMA to  record/ monitor DD  outcomeSender PhV  database EndYesNoSender to   update/ nullify ICSRs End EMA to  record  outcome of  duplicate  management1 2 2.1Duplicates  confirmed by  EMA? Duplicates  addressed?EMA to  contact  ICSRs sender 386 8.27Updated  ICSRs   submitted  to EV Duplicate  management7.17.2 4.1 4.2Duplicates  confirmed by  sender?Yes YesNo5 8.1ICSR Message  Delivery No  confirmed  duplicate  ICSRs4     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 186/225     Table VI.14.  Process description - Duplicate detection and management of ICSRs DDetection (DD) in  EudraVigilance – Collaboration between the Agency, competent authorities in Member States (NCAs)  and marketing authorisation holders ( MAHs ) where - dDuplicate  ICSRs submitted to EudraVigilance  originate from by the same sender  and identified by the Agency . See process map i n Figure VI.8.   No.. Step  Description  Responsible  organisation O rganisation   1 Start ..   Potential duplicate  detected . Potential duplicates have been detected  by the  PharmacoVigilance DataB ase (PhV DB) holder   organisation  or the PhV DB holder organisation  is notified of potential duplicates by a receiver  of the cases .EudraVigilance (EV) Duplicate  Detection with d Duplicate  ICSR s originat ing  from submitted to EudraVigilance by  the same  Ssender – Duplicates and  identified by the  Agency .  PhV DB holder   1 Duplica te Detection  (DD) in  EudraVigilance Eudra Vigilance  DD  algorithm.   A duplicate detection algorithm is operated in  EudraVigilance to detect potential duplicate  ICSRs.  Go to step 2.  EMA  2 Assessment .EMA  Duplicate  Detection DD  Management  Process .  AllThe potent ial duplicate  ICSRs need  assessment identified  by the organisation  Duplicate Management Team (DMT) to confirm  or deny their duplicate status.   Following assessment there are 4 possible outcomes:   - Not a Duplicate (go to step 2.1) ,  - More Information Needed (go to step 2.2) ,  - Duplicates From Different Sender (go to step  2.3),  - Duplicates From Same Sender (go to step 2.4) .  The outcome of all assessments should be recorded  to avoid continually reassessing the same cases  when further  versions arrive. These recorded  outcomes can also be used to refine  theEudraVigilance  duplicate detection methods  during future development .algorithm are reviewed by  EMA in accordance with the applicable SOP / and  WINs  3323 SOP - Performing duplicate detection in  EudraVigilance (in draft )     3324 WIN - Evaluation and management of detected DMTEMA     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 187/225     No.. Step  Description  Responsible  organisation O rganisation   potential duplicates in EudraVigilance (in draft) .    Go to step 2.1.   2.1 Are duplicate  ICSRs  confirmed  by  EMA?Not a  Duplicate: Mark as  not a duplicate. Are  there duplicates?  IfAre the cases are asse ssed as not being duplicate   ICSRs of one another, then mark both cases as  such. identified by the EudraVigilance duplicate  detection algorithm confirmed  by EMA ?  GoIf Yes, proceed  to step step 3 (End). .  If No, proceed to step 64.  DMTEMA  2.2 More informatio n  needed: Log in  tracking tool.  There should be some form of tool for tracking when  more information is needed, when correspondence  has been sent, whether an answer was received and,  if so, when.  DMT  2.2. 13 Write to  Sender. Are the  confirmed duplicate   ICSRs from the  same sender   organisation ? More information is required in order to be able to  make a definite assessment.   The sender (who transmitted the case(s) in question  to the PhVDB holder’s organisation) should be  contacted to request specific information  necessary  to confirm or deny duplication.   Personal data protection must remain paramount, so  unsecured communications should not include  sufficient data to identify an individual. Are the  confirmed duplicate  ICSRs from the same sender  organisation  or a di fferent sender organisation ?  If Yes, proceed to step 45.   If No, proceed according to the business process map  related to duplicate detection of ICSRs from different  senders outlined in Figure VI. 119 and Table VI.15  for  the management of d uplicate  ICSRs originate from  submitted to EudraVigilance by different senders  and  identified by the Agency . PhV DB  holder EMA  4 No confirmed  duplicate ICSRs . As a result of the duplicate detection managemen t  process by EMA, it is confirmed that the individual  cases are no t duplicate  ICSRs. Go to step 4.1.  EMA  4.1 EMA to record  outcome of  duplicate   management.  The outcome of the duplicate detection management  process is recorded in accordance with the applic able  SOP and WINs. Go to step 4.2.  EMA  4.2 End.  EMA  2.2. Receive request,  draft and send Once a request for more information has been  received, the Sender of the case should respond Sender EMA     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 188/225     No.. Step  Description  Responsible  organisation O rganisation   24 5 response. EMA to  contact   ICSRs  Ssender . (MAH/NCA)  promptly, either as a follow -up version of the case or  by responding to the requester.   The DMT should then reassess the case based on the  new information (Go back to step 2). CEMA c ontact s  the ICSR sender organisation (MAH/NCA)  to inform  about the potential duplicate ICSRs that have been  identified and confirmed as duplicates in  EudraVigilance  in accordance with the applicable  WIN:  3325 WIN Following -up potential duplicates ICSRs  with the original senders (in draft) . Go to step 6.    6 Are duplicate s  confirmed by  sender? Does the sen der organisation confirm  EMA  assessment of the duplicate ICSRs ?  If Yes, proce ed to step 7 for sender next step and to  step 8 for EMA next step .  If No, proceed to step 8 for EMA next step . EMA/ Sender  organisation  (MAH/NCA)   2.34 .1 Duplica tes  Different Senders:  Create or  nominate  master. EMA to  record/monitor the  outcome of the  duplicate  management   Once cases have been determined to be duplicates of  one another and have been transmitted to the PhV  DB holder by different senders or reporters , then  they should be merged under a master case,  following the process described in chapter 2.3  “Management of duplicate cases” of the Guideline on  the Detection and Management of Duplicate  Individual Cases and Individual Case Safety Reports  (ICSRs) , EMA/13432/2009 .Record the outcome of  the duplicate management and monitor that  duplicates have been addressed by the sender  organi sation   DMTEMA  2.3. 1 Deal with follow -ups. If any follow -ups arrive for any of the cases, this  information may require a reassessment of the  master case.   Reassess and, if necessary, amend the master case  as with any received follow -up information.   Go to s tep 3 (End).  DMT  4.2. 4 Duplicates Same  Sender: Log in  tracking tool. Are  the duplicates  addressed?  Once cases have been determined to be duplicates of  one another, and have been transmitted to the PhV  DB holder by the same sender, then this decision and  the correspondence referred to in step 2.4.1 should  be logged in the tracking tool referred to in step  2.2.Have the duplicates been addressed by the DMT     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 189/225     No.. Step  Description  Responsible  organisation O rganisation   Sender Organisation?   If Yes, the process ends.   If No, progress with  point 4  2.4. 157 Write to Sender .  (MAH/NCA) to  update/nullify cases .  The sender organisation, as Ssender Oorganisation  has to update s/nullif iesy the source of the duplicates,  should be contacted duplicate cases ICSRs  in their  pharmacovigilance database  in accordance line with  chapter 2.3.3 of  the guidance provided in GVP  Module VI Addendum I – Duplicate management of  adverse reaction rep ortsGuideline on the Detection  and Management of Duplicate Individual Cases and  Individual Case Safety Reports (ICSRs ), ).  (EMA/13432/2009 .  The sender should be asked to confirm or deny  duplication and take appropriate steps in accordance  with chapter 2.3.1 of the aforementioned Guideline. ).  Go to step 7.1 . Sender PhV DB  holder Oorganis ation  (MAH/NCA)   2.4. 2 Receive request.  Receive and log the communication containing  information on suspected duplicates in the Sender’s  PhV DB.  Sender   2.4. 3 Is it a duplicate?  Assess the potential duplicates. Are the cases  duplicates of one another?   If Yes, go to step 2.4.3.1 .  If No, go to step 2. 4.3.2. Sender   2.4. 357. 1 Merge  duplicates. Sender  (MAH/NCA) to send  updated  ICSR/nullification  report Updated  ICSRs submitted  to  EV. Merge the duplicates, taking into account Flowchart 1  of chapter 2.3.1.3 of The Ssender Oorganisation has  to send submit s anthe updated ICSR s/nullification  report s to EudraVigilance in accordance with  the  guidance provided in GVP Module VI Addendum I –  Duplicate management of adverse reaction  reports Guideline on the Detection and Management  of Duplicate Individual Cases and Individual Case  Safety Reports (ICSRs ), ) (EMA/13432/2009 .).. Go to  step 7. 2. Sender OSender  organisation  (MAH/NCA)   57.2 End.  Sender  organisation  (MAH/NCA)   8 EMA to  record/monitor  duplicate If the ICSRs ar e not confirmed as duplicates by the  sender , EMA r ecord s the outcome of the duplicate EMA     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 190/225     No.. Step  Description  Responsible  organisation O rganisation   management   outcome . management . Go to step 8.1.   If the sender confirms the duplicate ICSRs, EMA  monitor s that the sender has  addressed them by  submitting updated/nullified ICSRs to EV . Go to  step  8.1.  8.1 Are the duplicate   ICSRs addressed?  Have the duplicate  ICSRs been addressed by the  sender organisation?   If Yes, process to  step 8.2.  If No, process back to step 5. EMA  8.2 End.    2.4. 3.1. 16 Send follow - up/nullification. The re are no  confirmed  duplicates  For the cases that are merged under the master, send As  a nullification message to the PhV DB holder.   For the case  that is master , send the updated case to  the PhV DB holder as follow -up information. The  merging & transmission should be co mpleted promptly  and in any case within 15 days result  of the date of  receipt of the information from the PhV DB  holder duplicate detection management process it is  confirmed  that the individual cases were considered to  be possible are no  duplicates. This dat e should be treated  as the date of receipt of most recent information for  regulatory reporting purposes.  Sender EMA  2.4. 3.1. 2 End. The duplicates have now been removed from both  the Sender’s system and that of the PhV DB holder  and only the master should b e available for signal  detection and data quality analyses.   Unless follow -up information is received, then no  further steps need be taken.  Sender   2.4. 3.2 Draft and send a  response.  Reply to the PhV DB holder who sent the communication  informing that the c ases are not duplicates . Sender   2.4. 3.26 .1 Mark as “Not a EMA  to record outcome  of duplicate”.   management  Upon receipt The outcome  of confirmation from the  Sender organisation that duplicate detection  management process is recorded in accordance with  the  cases are not applicable SOP /WIN:  3323 SOP - Performing duplicate detection in  EudraVigilance (in draft)     3324 WIN - Evaluation and management of detected  potential  duplicates , mark the cases as “Not a duplicate” DMTEMA     Guideline on good pharmacovi gilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 191/225     No.. Step  Description  Responsible  organisation O rganisation   & go to step 3 (End).  in EudraVigilance (in dra ft)     36.2 End. No further action is required for this couple.  EMADMT       Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 192/225     VI.App. 7.2 Duplicate Ddetection in EudraVigilance – Collaboration between  the Agency, competent authorities in Member States and marketing  authorisation holders MAHs – where  dDuplicate  ICSR s originate  from submitted to EudraVigilance by  different sSenders  and identified by  the Agency    Business process map - Duplicate DDetection  (DD) in EudraVigilance – Collaboration between  the Agency, competent authorities in Member States (NCAs) and marketing authorisation holders  (MAHs ) where – dDuplicate  ICSRs originate from submitted to EudraVigilance by  different senders  and  identified by the Agency . See steps description in Table VI.15.   Figure VI.8.       Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 193/225      Local PhV  databases EudraVigilance  DD  Algorithm EMA DD Management Process EndEMA to  contact ICSR  Senders EMA to  inform  Senders  about  master caseYes No YesNo No YesEMA to  merge  duplicates  and create  master case Senders to  administrate  duplicates  locally Local PhV  databases  YesNo Proceed as  outlined in  Figure VI.8 (DD  same sender)No Yes EMA to  review  requested  info EMA to  record  outcome of  duplicate  managementEMA to  merge  duplicates  and create  master caseStart Duplicates  Same Sender?Duplicates  confirmed by  EMA? EMA to  record  outcome of  duplicate  managementFurther info  required? Duplicates  confirmed?Senders  provided inof?EndDuplicate  management1 2 2.13 5 6 8 9 11.1 11.27.3 7.4 4.1EMA to  inform  Senders  about  master case7.1 7.2 4.2 10Senders to  administrate  duplicates  locallySenders to  administrate  duplicates  locallySenders to  administrate  duplicates  locally Duplicates  not  confirmed  by EMA4 Duplicate  ICSRs  confirmed11 EndDuplicate  ICSRs  confirmed Duplicate  ICSRs not  confirmed12 12.1 12.211.47 11.3     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 194/225          Table VI.15.  Process description - Duplicate DDetection (DD) in EudraVigilance – Collaboration  between the Agency, competent authorities in Member States (NCAs) and marketing authorisation  holders  (MAHs ) where - dDuplicate  ICSRs originate from submitted to EudraVigilance by different  senders  and identified by the Agency . See process map in Figure VI.9.   No Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation    Start . EudraVigilance (EV) Duplicate Detection with      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 195/225     No Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation    duplicates originating from different Senders –  Duplicates identified by the Agency   Example: there is more than one suspect drug and  the same case  is submitted  to EV by two  MAHs senders ; the patient reported the same adverse  reaction to a NCA and the MAH .  1 Duplicate Detection  (DD) in  EudraVigilance Eudra Vigilance DD  Algorithm . A duplicate detecti on algorithm is operated in  EudraVigilance to detect potential duplicate  ICSRs.  Go to step 2.  EMA  2 EMA Duplicate  Detection DD  Management  Process . The potential duplicate  ISCRs identified by the  EudraVigilance duplicate detection algorithm are  reviewed in  accordance with the applicable SOP / and  WINs  3323 SOP - Performing duplicate detection in  EudraVigilance (in draft)     3324 WIN - Evaluation and management of detected  potential duplicates in EudraVigilance (in draft) .    Go to step 2.1.  EMA  2.1 Are duplica te ICSRs  confirmed by  EMA?Are there  duplicates?  Are the potential duplicate  ICSRs identified by the  EudraVigilance duplicate detection algorithm  confirmed?   If Yes, proceed to pointstep 3.  If No, proceed to steppoint 49.  EMA  3 Are the duplicate   ICSRs from  the  same Ssender?  Are the duplicate  ICSRs identified by the  EudraVigilance duplicate detection algorithm  confirmed from the same sender organisation (NCA or  MAH) ?  If Yes, proceed as outlined in Figure  VI.8 and Table  VI.14  for the management of duplicate ICSRs  submitted to EudraVigilance by the same sender and  identified by the Agency 10.   If No, proceed to steppoint 45. EMA  4 Duplicates not  confirmed by EMA . The potential duplicate  ICSRs have  been reviewed  and are not considered as duplicate of a single case.  Go to step 4.1.  EMA  4.1 EMA to record  outcome of duplicate The outcome of the duplicate detection management  process is recorded in accordance with the applicable EMA     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 196/225     No Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation   management . SOP and WINs. Go to step 4.2.   4.2 End.  EMA  45 Is further  information  required?  Is there  further information necessa ry from the  senders’  organisation s required to confirm if the  potential duplicate  ICSRs identified by the duplicate  detection algorithm are dupli cates?   If Yes, proceed to steppoint 56.   If No, proceed to steppoint 87.  EMA  56 EMA to contact ICSR  Sender s’  organisation ss  (MAH/NCA) . Contact the ICSR sender sender s’ organisation ss to  obtain additional information on the individual cases  that have been identified as potential duplicate   ICSRs. Go to step 8.  EMA    6 Has Sender provided  the information?  Check if the Sender s have provided the requested  information?   If Yes, proceed to point 7.   If No, proceed to 5.  EMA  7 Duplicate ICSRs  confirmed . The ICSRs  are confirmed as duplicate of a single  case. Go to step 7.1.  EMA  7.1 EMA to merge  duplicate ICSRs and  create master case . EMA m erges the duplicate  ICSRs in line with the  guidance provided in GVP Module VI Addendum I –  Duplicate management of adverse reaction reports .  Go to step 7.2.  EMA  7.2 EMA to inform  sender s’  organisation s about  master case . EMA informs  the sender s’ organisation s (MAH/NCA)   about the outcome of the duplicate management   (creation of master case)  to allow them to take  action where necessary98;99;100. Go to step 7.3.  EMA                                                    98 NOTE: MAHs will be able to download “master cases” from EudraVigilance in line with the EudraVigilance Access Policy for  Medicines for Human Use  (EMA/759287/2009 ). The message type (E2B(R2) data element M.1.1 ; E2B(R3) data element  N.1.1 ) will have the code “master” to distinguish it from all other ICSR messages, which will have the message type  “ichicsr” (see EU ICSR Implementation Guide ; EMA/51938/2013 ).  MAHs will be able to export from EudraVigilance the origina l ICSRs that have been merged under the “master case” and  also any nullification to these ICSRs, where applicable (see EU ICSR Implementation Guide ; EMA/51938/2013 ). It is up to  the MAH to decide if they wish to process “master cases” or not.   If the MAH does process the “master case” and it results in the  updat e of one of its own individual cases with the  information from t he EudraVigilance master case, the MAH MUST NOT resubmit an updated version of this individual case  to EudraVigilance  if there is no receipt of new information that warrants the submission of a follow -up report .     99 A table of master cases and associated d uplicates will be made available to aid  the duplicate management by Sender  organisations.     100 NCAs can use the EudraVigilance Rerouting Rules Engine to update the rerouting rules to determine if they wish to  receive EudraVigilance “master cases” or not  (see EU ICSR Implementation Guide ; EMA/51938/2013 ). The “master cases”  MUST NOT  be retransmitted by the NCA to EudraVigilan ce if there is no receipt of new information that warrants the  submission of a follow -up report.      Guideline on  good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 197/225     No Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation   7.3 Sender s’  organisation s to  administrate  duplicate  ICSRs  locally. The s ender s’ organisation s of the individual cases  identified as duplicate  ICSRs manage the duplicate  ICSRs locally in line with the guidance provided in  GVP Module VI Addendum I – Duplicate management  of adverse reaction reports .  The reference numbers of the duplicate ICSRs  and of  EMA master case are capture d in data element ‘Other  case ident ifiers in previous transmissions’ ( ICH- E2B(R2) A.11/  ICH-E2B(R3) section C.1.9.1 .).   Go to step 7.4.  Sender  organisations   (MAH/NCA)   7.4 End.  Sender  organisations   (MAH/NCA)   8 Have sender s’  organisations   provided  information?  Check if the sender ’s organis ations have provided the  requested information?   If Yes, proceed to step 9.   If No, proceed back to step 6.  EMA  79 EMA to review  requested info . Review the potential duplicate ICSRs  together with  the requested information provided by the sender s’  organisa tions. Go to step 10.    EMA  10 Are duplicate  ICSRs  confirmed ? Are the potential duplicate  ICSRs confirmed  following  the receipt of the requested information from the  sender’s organisations ?  If Yes, proceed to step 11.  If No, proceed to step 12.  EMA  11 Duplicate ICSRs  confirmed . The ICSRs are confirmed as duplicate of a single  case. Go to step 11.1. EMA  11.1 EMA to merge  duplicate ICSRs and  create master case.  EMA m erges the duplicate  ICSRs in EudraVigilance in  line with the guidance provided in GVP Module VI  Addendum I – Duplicate management of adverse  reaction reports . Go to step 11.2. EMA  11.2 EMA to inform  sender s’  organisation s about  master case.  EMA i nform s the sender s’ organisation s (MAH/NCA)   about the outcome of the duplicate management   (creation of master case)  to allow them to take  action where necessary101;102;103. Go to step 11.3. EMA                                                    101 NOTE: MAHs will be able to download “master cases” from EudraVigilance in line with the EudraVigilance Access Policy  for Medicines for Human Use ( EMA/759287/2009 ). The message type (E2B(R2) data element M.1.1; E2B(R3) data element       Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 198/225     No Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation   11.3 Sender s’  organisation s to  administrate  duplicate  ICSRs  locally . The s ender s’ organisation s of the individual cases  identified as duplicate  ICSRs manage the duplicate  ICSRs locally in line with the guidance provided in  GVP Module VI Addendum I – Duplicate management  of adverse reaction reports .  The reference numbers of the duplicate ICSRs  and of  EMA master case are capture d in data element ‘Other  case identifiers in previous transmissions’ ( ICH- E2B(R2) A.11/  ICH-E2B(R3) section C.1.9.1 .).   Go to step 11.4. Sender  organisations   (MAH/NCA)   11.4 End.  Sender  organisations   (MAH/NCA)   12 Duplicate ICSRs no t  confirmed.  The potential duplicate  ICSRs are not considered as  duplicate of a single case based on the review  of the  information provided by the senders’ organisations.   Go to step 12.1. EMA  12.1 EMA to record  outcome of duplicate  management . The outcome  of the duplicate management process is  recorded in accordance with the applicable SOP  and  WINs. Go to step 12.2. EMA  12.2 End.  EMA  7.1 Are the ICSRs  duplicate of a single  case?  the The duplicate cases are to be reviewed based on  the requested info that  has been provided by the  Senders to confirm if they are duplicates.   If Yes, proceed to point 8.   If No, progress with point 9. EMA  8 The cases  are  confirmed  duplicate s  EMA                                                                                                                                                           N.1.1) will have the code “master” to disting uish it from all other ICSR messages, which will have the message type  “ichicsr” (see EU ICSR Implementation Guide ; EMA/5 1938/2013 ).  MAHs will be able to export from EudraVigilance the original ICSRs that have been merged under the “master case” and  also any nullification to these ICSRs, where applicable (see EU ICSR Implementation Guide ; EMA/51938/2013 ). It is up to  the MAH to decide if they wish to process “master cases” or not.   If the MAH does process the “master case” and it results in t he updat e of one of its own individual cases with the  information from the EudraVigilance master case, the MAH MUST NOT resubmit an updated version of this individual case  to EudraVigilance  if there is no receipt of new information that warrants the submis sion of a follow -up report .    102 A table of master cases and associated duplicates will be made available to aid duplicate management by Sender  organisations.     103 NCAs can use the EudraVigilance Rerouting Rules Engine to update the rerouting rules to determin e if they wish to  receive EudraVigilance “master cases” or not  (see EU ICSR Implementation Guide ; EMA/51938/2013 ). The “ master cases”  MUST NOT be retransmitted by the NCA to EudraVigilance if there is no receipt of new information that warrants the  submission of a follow -up report.      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 199/225     No Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation   8.1 EMA to merge  duplicate report s  and record outcome   Merge the potential duplicates in EudraVigilance in line  with the Guideline on the Detection and Management of  Duplicate Individual Cases and Individual Case Safety  Reports (ICSRs) ( EMA/13432/2009 )  Sender  Organisations  (MAH/NCA)   8.2 EMA to inform  Senders about  outcome  Inform the Senders about the outcome of the duplicate  management to allow Senders  to take action where  necessary104,105;106 EMA   8.3 Senders to  administrate  duplicates locally  Senders of the cases identified as duplicates in  EudraVigilance should follow the Guideline on the  Detection and Management of Duplicate Individual  Cases and Individual Case Safety Reports ( ICSRs)  (EMA/13432/2009 )   Note: c apture duplicate case reference numbers in data  element ‘Other case identifiers in previous  transmissions’ (E2B(R2) A.11/E2B( R3) section C.1.9.1  Sender  Organisations   (MAH/NCA)   8.4 End  Sender  Organisations   (MAH/NCA)   9 The cases are NOT  duplicates  The potential duplicates have been reviewed and are  not duplicate case s EMA  9.1 EMA to record  outcome of  duplicate  management  The o utcome of the Duplicate Detection Management  process is recorded in accordance with the applicable  SOP/WIN:  3323 SOP - Performing duplicate detection in  EudraVigilance (in draft)     3324 WIN - Evaluation and management of detected  potential duplicates in Eud raVigilance (in draft)   EMA                                                   104 NOTE: MAHs will be able to download “master cases” from EudraVigilance in line with the Eud raVigilance Access Policy   for Medicines for Human Use ( EMA/759287/2009 ).  The message type (equivalent to E2B(R2) - M.1.1) will have the code  “master” to distinguish it from all other ICSR messages, which will have the message type “ichicsr” (see EU ICSR  Implementation Guide, chapter I.C.3.1.1).   MAHs will also be able to export from EudraVigilance the original ICSRs that ha ve been merged under the “master case”  and also any nullification to these ICSRs, where applicable (see EU ICSR Implementation Guide, chapter I.C.6.1.2). It is up  to the MAH to decide if they wish to process “master cases” or not.   If the MAH does process t he “master case” and it involves results in the  updat eing of one of their own individual cases with  the information from the EudraVigilance master case, the MAH MUST NOT resubmit an updated version of this individual  case to EudraVigilance.     105 A table of m aster cases and associated duplicates will be made available to aid duplicate management by Sender  organisations.     106 NCAs can use the EudraVigilance Rerouting Rules Engine to update the rerouting rules to determine if they wish to  receive EudraVigilance “ master cases” or not.  See also further guidance as outlined in EU ICSR Implementation Guide,  chapter I.C.2.3 and I.C.6.1.2). The “master cases” must not be retransmitted by the NCA to EudraVigilance if there is no  receipt of new information that warrants a  follow -up report.      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 200/225     No Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation     9.2 End  EMA       Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 201/225     VI.App. 7.3 Duplicate detection in EudraVigilance – Collaboration between  the Agency, competent authorities in Member States  and marketing  authorisation holders  – Duplicate  ICSR s submitted to EudraVigilance  byfrom the same  Ssender Organisatio n – duplicates and identified  detected  by the sender organisation  prior  to the detection by the Agency  in  EudraVigilance      Figure VI.9.  Business process map -– Duplicate Detection  (DD) in EudraVigilance – Collaboration  between the Agency,  competent authorities in Member States (NCAs) and marketing authorisation  holders ( MAHs ) – Duplicate  ICSRs originat ing fromsubmitted to EudraVigilance by  a pharmacovigilance  database o f the same Ssender Organisation (NCA/MAH) , which were  sent to EudraVigi lance –  Duplicates detected and identified  by the sSender Oorganisation prior to the detection by the Agency .  See steps description in Table VI.1 6.   in EudraVigilance        Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 202/225           Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 203/225      EudraVigilanceMAH to  access  ICSRs in EV NCA PhV  database MAH PhV  database  NCA to  update/ nullify ICSRs  & send  update to  EVMAH  detects  duplicates   sent to EV NCA  detects  duplicates   sent to EV EndEnd MAH to access  ICSRs in EV EMA to re-route  ICSRs to NCAs NCA  DD  Management ProcessMAH  DD  Management Process ICSR Message  DeliveryStart  Start ICSR Message  Delivery ICSR Message  Delivery ICSR Message  DeliveryMAH to  update/ nullify ICSRs  & send  update to  EV 1 12 3 3.13.2 3.3455.1 5.25.3 MAHs MAHs MAH or NCA  sends ICSR  duplicates MAHs MAHs MAH or NCA  sends ICSR  duplicates ICSR Message  reroutingICSR Message  Download ICSRnICSRnICSRnICSRnICSRnICSRn     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 204/225     Table VI.16.  Process description -– Duplicate Detection (DD) in Eudra Vigilance – Collaboration  between the Agency, Member States and MAHs  - Duplicate  ICSRs submitted to EudraVigilance  originating from a pharmacovigilance database of by the same Ssender Organisation (NCA/MAH)  which  were sent  to EudraVigilance  – Duplicates det ected and identified by the sSender Oorganisation prior  to  the detection by the Agency . See process map in Figure VI.10.  in EudraVigilance   No Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation    Start .    Duplicate  ICSR s submitted to EudraVigilance by  originating f rom a pharmacovigilance database  of the same Ssender (NCA or MAH) Organisation  (NCA/MAH)  which were sent  to EudraVigilance   – Duplicates detected  and identified  by the  Ssender Oorganisation  prior to the detection by  the Agency .   1 ICSR d Duplicate   ICSRs are  sentsubmitted  to  EudraVigilance EV.  Duplicate d ICSRs for the same individual case are  sentsubmitted  to EudraVigilance  (EV) by the same  sender  (MAH or NCA) .  Go to step 2 for duplicate ICSRs submitted by a NCA.  Go to step 4 for duplicate ICSRs submitted by a  MAH.  Sender  Oorganisation   (NCA/MAH/NCA)  2 Re-routing of ICSRs  to NCA . MAHs EEA ICSRs are rerouted from EudraVigilance to  the NCA in accordance with VI.C.4 . and the rerouting  principles described in the EU ICSR Implementation  Guide (EMA/51938/2013 ). Go to step 3.  EMA/  EudraVigilance   3 Duplicate  Management  Process NCA DD and  manag ement  process . A routine duplicate detection process is performed  regularly by the  NCA in its pharmacovigilance  database.  Go to step 3.1.  NCA  3.1 Duplicate s detected ,  which were sent to  EudraVigilance NCA  detects duplicates  sent to EV.  The The NCA identifi es the duplicate  ICSRs  of its own  cases  after their submission s they sent  to  EudraVigilance as part of theirits routine duplicate  management process . Go to step 3.2.  NCA  3.2 NCA to update/   nullify ICSRs s and  send update to  EV.Review/ update/   nullify cases  and  send to EV  The NCA r Review s and update s/nullif iesy its own  duplicate d individual cases ICSRs  and submit ssend  the updated ICSR s/ nullification ICSR s to  EudraVigilance in line with the guidance provided in  GVP Module VI Addendum I – Duplicate management  of adverse reaction reports . Guideline on the  Detection and Management of Duplicate Individual  Cases and Individual Case Safety Reports (ICSRs)  (EMA/13432/2009 )Go to step 3.3.   NCA  3.3 End.  NCA     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 205/225     No Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation   4 Access to ICSRs in  EudraVigilance by  MAHs. ICSRs are made accessible to MAHs in line with the  EudraVigilance Access Policy for Medicines for Human  Use107. Go to step 5. MAH  45 DMAH DDuplicate   and  Mmanagement  Process .  A routine duplicate detection process is performed  regularly  by the MAH in its pharmacovigilance  database.  Go to step 5.1. MAH  45.1 MAH detects  duplicates sent to  EV.Duplicates  detected , which  were sent to  EudraVigilance  The MAH identifies duplicate  ICSRs of its own cases  Duplicates after their submission sent to  EudraVigilance are identified as part of itstheir  routine duplicate management process . Go to step  5.2. MAH  45.2 MAH to update/   nullify ICSRs  and  send update to  EV.Review/update/   nullify cases and  send to EV  The MAH Rreview s and update s/nullif yies its own   duplicate d individual cases ICSRs  and sendsubmit s  the updated ICSR s/ nullification ICSR s to  EudraVigilance in line with the guidance provided in  GVP Module VI Addendum I – Duplicate management  of adverse reaction reports .Guideline on the  Detection and Management of Duplicate Individual  Cases and Individual Case Safety Reports (ICSRs)  (EMA/13432/2009 ) Go to step 5.3. MAH  45.3 End.  MAH                                                   107 Ref.: EMA/759287/2009 ; EMA website: Home/ Human regulatory/ Post -authorisation/ Pharmacovigilance/  EudraVigilance/ Access to data .     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 206/225     VI.App. 7.4 Duplicate detection in EudraVigilance – Collaboration between  the Agency, competent authorities in Member States  and marketing  authorisation holders - Duplicate  ICSR s submitted to EudraVigilance by  from different Ssender s Organisations  -and Duplicates detected  identified  by an Oorganisation prior to the detection by the Agency in EudraVigilance        Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 207/225      Business process map -– Duplicate Detection (DD) in EudraVigilance – Collaboration between the  Agency, competent authorities in Member States  (NCAs) and marketing authorisation holders ( MAHs ) -  Duplicate  ICSRs fromsubmitted to EudraVigilan ce by  different Ssenderr Organisation s - Duplicates  detected and identified by an Oorganisation prior to the detection by the Agency . See steps description  in Table VI.17.  in EudraVigilance   Figure VI.10.       Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 208/225      EudraVigilance NCA PhV  database MAH PhV  database  NCA to  inform EMA  about  duplicates MAH detects  duplicates   sent to EVNCA detects  duplicates   sent to EV MAH to  inform EMA  about  duplicatesMAH to access  ICSRs in EVEMA to re-route  ICSRs to NCAs NCA  DD  Management ProcessMAH  DD  Management ProcessICSR Message  reroutingICSR Message  Download NCA to  administrate  duplicates  locallyMAH to  administrate  duplicates  locallyICSR Message  Delivery EMA to  inform  senders  about  master caseEMA to  merge  duplicates  and create  master case1Start  2 3 3.1 3.2 3.34 5 5.1 5.2 5.3 3.4 5.46 6.3EndMAHs MAHs  ICSRnMAH & NCA  send same  duplicate case  to EVICSR Message  Delivery 1Start  6.1 NCA PhV  database MAH PhV  database ICSRnICSRnICSRnICSRnICSRnMAHs MAHs MAH & NCA  send same  duplicate case  to EV 6.2 6.2    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 209/225            Guideline on good ph armacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 210/225     Table VI.17.  Process description -– Duplicate  Detection  (DD) in EudraVigilance – Collaboration  between the Agency, competent authorities in Member States (NCAs) and marketing authorisation  holders ( MAHs ) - Duplicate  ICSRs submitted to EudraVigilance by from different Ssender s  Organisations - Duplicat es detected and identified  by an Oorganisation prior to the detection by the  Agency in EudraVigilance . See process map in Figure VI. 11.    No Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation    Start .   Duplicate  ICSR s submitted to EudraVigilance by  from different Ssender  Organisation s -and  identified  Duplicates detected  by an  Oorganisation prior to the detection by the  Agency where duplicates were previously not  identified  in EudraVigilance   Example: case series described in the medical  literature submitted  by MAHs t o EudraVigilance;  these were previously reported by healthcare  professionals to a NCA, which submitted  the cases to  EudraVigilance. Primary source identifiers or patient  identifiers were masked and the duplicate detection  algorithm in EV did not identify t he reports as  potential duplicates .   1 ICSR d MAH and NCA  send same duplicate  case to EV. uplicates  are sent  to  EudraVigilance   Duplicate d ICSRs for the same individual case are  sentsubmitted  to EudraVigilance by different senders   (NCAs and MAHs).   Go to st ep 2 for duplicate ICSRs submitted by a NCA.   Go to step 4 for duplicate ICSRs submitted by a MAH.  Sender  Oorganisation  (NCA/MAH)   2 Re-routing of ICSRs  to NCA . MAHs ICSRs are rerouted from EudraVigilance to the  NCA in accordance with VI.C.4 . and the rerouting  principles described in the EU ICSR Implementation  Guide ( EMA/51938/2013 ). Go to step 3.  EMA/  EudraVigilance   3 NCA d Duplicate   detection and   Mmanagement  Process .  A routine duplicate detection process is performed  regularly by the NCA in its pharmacovigilance  database. Go to step 3.1.  NCA  3.1 DNCA detects  duplicate s sents  detected, which  were sent  to  EVEudraVigilance . The The NCA identifies the duplicate  ICSRs after their  submission it sent to EudraVigilance by multiple  senders as part of its routine duplicate management  process . Go to step 3. 2. NCA  3.2 NCA to i nform EMA  about  duplicate s. The NCA informs EMA by email  (duplicates@ema.europa.eu ) about the duplicate   ICSRs .  NCA     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 211/225     No Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation   Go to step 3.3  for NCA next step .  Go to step 6 for EMA next step.   3.23 NCA to a NCA to  administrate  duplica tess locally . The NCA manages the duplicate ICSRs locally in line  with the  guidance provided in GVP Module VI  Addendum I – Duplicate management of adverse  reaction reports .  The reference numbers of the duplicate ICSRs  are  capture d in data element ‘Other case identifiers in  previous transmissions’ ( ICH-E2B(R2) A.11/  ICH- E2B(R3) section C.1.9.1 .).   Go to step 3.4 Review and update/nullify individual  cases  and send updated ICSR/nullification ICSR to  EudraVigilance in line with the Guideline on the  Detection and Management of Duplicate Individual  Cases and Individual Case Safety Reports (ICSRs)   (EMA/13432/2009 ) NCA  8.3  Senders of the cases identified as duplicates in  EudraVigilance should follow the Guideline on the  Detection and Management of Duplicate Individual  Cases and Individual Case Safety Reports ( ICSRs)  (EMA/13432/2009 )   Note: c apture duplic ate case reference numbers in  data element ‘Other case identifiers in previous  transmissions’ (E2B(R2) A.11/E2B(R3) section C.1.9.1  Sender  Organisations   (MAH/NCA)        3.3 End    3.4 End.    4 Access to ICSRs in  EudraVigilance by  MAHs . ICSRs are made acce ssible to MAHs in line with the  EudraVigilance Access Policy for Medicines for Human  Use108. Go to step 5.  MAH  54 MAH duplicate  detection and  mDuplicate  Management  Pprocess .  A routine duplicate detection process is performed  regularly by the MAH in its pha rmacovigilance  database. Go to step 5.1. MAH  54.1 MAH detects  Dduplicate s s The MAH identifies the duplicate  ICSRs it sent after  their submission  by multiple senders  to MAH                                                   108 Ref.: EMA/759287/2009 ; EMA website: Home/ Human regulatory/ Post -authorisation/ Pharmacovi gilance/  EudraVigilance/ Access to data .     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 212/225     No Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation   detected, which  were sent  to  EudraVigilance sent  to EV.  EudraVigilance as part of its du plicate management  process . Go to step 5.2.  5.2 MAH to i nform EMA  about duplicate s. The MAH informs EMA by email  (duplicates@ema.europa.eu ) about the duplicate   ICSRs s.   Go to step 5.3 for MAH next step .  Go to step 6 for EMA next step.  and  MAH  54.2 3 Review/update/   nullify cases and  send to EV MAH to  administrate  duplicate s locally . The MAH manages duplicate ICSRs locally in line with  the guidance provided in GVP Module VI Addendum I  – Duplicate management of adverse reaction reports .  The reference numbers of the duplicate ICSRs  are  capture d in data  element ‘Other case identifiers in  previous transmissions’ ( ICH-E2B(R2) A.11 / ICH- E2B(R3) section C.1.9.1 .).   Go to step 5.4. Review and update/nullify duplicate d  individual cases and send updated ICSR/nullification  ICSR to EudraVigilance in line with the Guideline on  the Detection and Management of Duplicate  Individual Cases and Individual Case Safety Reports  (ICSRs)  (EMA/13432/2 009) MAH  4.3 End    5.4 End.    6  EMA to m erge  duplicate ICSRs and  record outcome . EMA m Merges the potential duplicate  ICSRs in  EudraVigilance in line with the guidance provided in  GVP Module VI Addendum I – Duplicate management  of adverse reaction reports . Guideline on the  Detection and Management of Duplicate Individual  Cases and Individual Cas e Safety Reports (ICSRs)  (EMA/13432/2009 )Go to step 6.1.  EMA  6.1 EMA to inform  sender s about  master case . EMA i nform s the sender organisation s (MAH/NCA)   about the outcome of the duplicate management   (creation of master case ) to allow them to take  action where necessar y109, 110, 111. Go to step 6.2 . EMA                                                    109 NOTE: MAHs will be able to download “master cases” from EudraVigilance in line with the EudraVigilance Access Policy  for Medicines for Human Use ( EMA/759287/2009 ). The message type (E2B(R2) data element M.1.1; E2B(R3) data element  N.1.1) will have the code “master” to distinguish it from all other ICSR messages, which will have th e message type  “ichicsr” (see EU ICSR Implementation Guide ; EMA/51938/2013 ).  MAHs will be able to export from EudraVigil ance the original ICSRs that have been merged under the “master case” and  also any nullification to these ICSRs, where applicable (see EU ICSR Implementation Guide ; EMA/51938/2013 ). It is up to  the MAH to decide if they wish to process “master cases” or not.        Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 213/225     No Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation   6.2 NCA/MAH  to  administrate  duplicate s locally . Sender s’ organisation s (NCA and M AH) of the ICSRs   identified as duplicate  administ rate the information  about the master case in their database  (reference  number of the master case created by EMA  to be  captured in ICH E2B(R2) A .1.11 / E2B(R3)  C.1.9.1 :  ‘Other case identifiers in previous tr ansmissions’ ).  The updated version of the ICSR s should not be  resubmitted to EV.  Go to step 6.3.  Sender  organisations   (MAH/NCA)   6.3 End.                                                                                                                                                               If the MAH does process the “master case” and it results in the  updat e of one of its own individual cases with the  information from the EudraVigilance master case, the MAH MUST NOT resubmit an updated version of this individual case  to EudraVigilance  if there is no receipt of new information that warrants the submission of a follow -up report .    110 A table of master cases a nd associated duplicates will be made available to aid duplicate management by Sender  organisations.     111 NCAs can use the EudraVigilance Rerouting Rules Engine to update the rerouting rules to determine if they wish to  receive EudraVigilance “master cases” or not (see EU ICSR Implementation Guide ; EMA/51938/2013 ). The “master cases”  MUST NOT be retransmitted by the NCA to Eu draVigilance if there is no receipt of new information that warrants the  submission of a follow -up report.      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 214/225      VI.App. 7.5 Duplicate Detection in EudraVigilance – Collaboration between the Agency, Member States and MAHs where  duplicates are first detected in a database other than EudraVigilance   Business process map - Collaboration between the Agency, Member States and MAHs - Duplicates first detected in a  database other than EudraVigilance          Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 215/225     Process description - Collaborat ion between the Agency, Member States and MAHs where duplicates are first detected in a  database other than EudraVigilance   No Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation    Start    EudraVigilance (EV) Duplicate Detection with  duplicates originating from the  same Sender –  Duplicates identified by the Agency    1 Duplicate Detection  (DD) NOT in  EudraVigilance  A duplicate detection process operating on a database  other than EV detects potential duplicates.   This is day zero for your process & for any updated  versions that will be transmitted  MAH/NCA   2 MAH/NCA Duplicate  Detection  Management  Process  The potential duplicates identified are reviewed in  accordance with the applicable SOP/WIN  MAH/NCA   3 Are the duplicates  confirmed?  Are the potential duplicates iden tified by the process  confirmed?   If Yes, proceed to 4.   If No, proceed to 3.1.  MAH/NCA   3.1 End    4  Where did the cases  come from?  From where did your organisation receive the confirmed  duplicate cases?   If both cases came direct from a primary source or via  non-EEA NCAs, proceed to 5   If both cases came via EV (either rerouted for an NCA  or accessed from EV for an MAH), proceed to 6   If one case came direct from a primary source & one  via EV, proceed to 7  MAH/NCA   5 Both cases came  direct from primary  sourc e: MAH/NCA  to administer the  duplicates in  accordance with  internal policies  If the internal policy is to allocate one case as the  master, proceed to step 5.1   If the internal policy is to merge duplicates under a  master, proceed to 5.2  MAH/NCA   5.1 MAH/NCA  allocates  one case as the  master  Update one ICSR with the case numbers & other  relevant information from the other & send that to EV  as follow -up.  Nullify the other case &, if it was already transmitted to  EV, send the nullification message to EV  MAH/NCA   5.1. End       Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 216/225     No Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation   1  5.2 MAH/NCA merges  the duplicates  under a master  case Can the underlying duplicates be nullified and a  nullification message sent to EV?   If No, proceed to 5.2.1   If Yes, proceed to 5.2.2  MAH/NCA   5.2. 1 The underlying  duplicates cannot  be nulli fied The Sender Organisation has to send updated ICSRs for  the duplicate reports to EudraVigilance in accordance  with the Guideline on the Detection and Management of  Duplicate Individual Cases and Individual Case Safety  Reports (ICSRs)  (EMA/13432/2009 ).  The updated duplicates should include the case  numbers of the other duplicates and also of the master  case in the report duplic ates section.  The master case  created from the duplicates should NOT be sent to  EV112. MAH/NCA   5.2. 2 The underlying  duplicates can be  nullified  The Sender Organisation has to nullify the duplicate  cases in their pharmacovigilance database in  accordance with  the Guideline on the Detection and  Management of Duplicate Individual Cases and  Individual Case Safety Reports (ICSRs)   (EMA/13 432/2009 ).  The master case created from the duplicates should be  sent to EV. This case should be sent as a standard ICSR  & cannot be sent as message type MASTER.  MAH/NCA   5.3 End    6 Both cases were  received via EV  Were the duplicates transmitted to EV b y the same  sender organisation?   If yes, proceed with step 6.1   If no, proceed with step 6.2  MAH/NCA   6.1 Either inform  sender organisation  or EMA via  dedicated mailbox  If you wish to inform the EMA via the dedicated mailbox  proceed  with step 6.2   If you wis h to inform the sender directly, proceed with  step 6.3  MAH/NCA   6.2 Inform EMA about  duplicates via Email duplicates@ema.europa.eu  to inform them that  you have detected that cases you receiv ed from  Eudravigilance are duplicates of one another, including MAH/NCA                                                    112 Where, in certain instances based on internal duplicate management process , the recommendation provided under  section 5.2.1  cannot be applied by  Member Stat es, the management of duplicates  will be handled by EMA. Requests should  be sent to duplicates@ema.europa.eu  with the relevant worldwide case safety IDs of the duplicate cases .     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practice s (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 217/225     No Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation   dedicated mailbox  the worldwide case safety IDs of the duplicate cases   6.2. 1 EMA proceed as  outlined in Figure  VI.11. EMA to administer duplicates in accordance with  defined duplicate management proces s as outlined in  Figure VI.1 1. EMA  6.2. 2 End    6.3 Inform sender  about duplicates  Contact the sender organisation to inform them about  the duplicates that they have transmitted to EV.   Proceed with step 6.4  MAH/NCA   6.4 Sender to proceed  as outlined in  Figure VI.1 0.  The sender has to assess the cases and, if confirmed,  either merge the cases under a master or allocate as  applicable, in accordance with the Guideline on the  Detection and Management of Duplicate Individual  Cases and Individual Case Safety Re ports (ICSRs)   (EMA/13432/2009 ).   Original  sender  organisation  (MAH/NCA)   6.5 End    7 One case came  direct from a  primary sour ce &  one via EV  The sender has to update the ICSR received directly  from the primary source with the case number of the  case received via EV & retransmit to EV.   The duplicates in the sender's database should be  managed in accordance with the Guideline on t he  Detection and Management of Duplicate Individual  Cases and Individual Case Safety Reports (ICSRs)   (EMA/13432/2009 ).  Once th e updated case has been received in EV from  the sender, procced  to step 6.2.1  MAH/NCA        Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 218/225     VI.App. 7.65 Duplicate detection in EudraVigilance – Collaboration between  the Agency, competent authorities in Member States and marketing  authorisation holders  – Duplicate  ICSR s identified as part of signal  management as outlined  in GVP Module IX - Collaboration between the  Agency, Member States and MAHs   Figure VI.11.  Business process map - Duplicate Detection (DD) in EudraVigilance – Collaboration  between the Agency, competent aut horities in Member States  (NCAs)  and marketing authorisation  holders ( MAHs ) - Duplicate  ICSRs identified as part of signal management  as outlined in GVP Module  IXprocess based on EudraVigilance data . See steps description in Table VI.18.         Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 219/225      EVDAS: e-RMR,  line listings,  individual reports EndStart 1Signal  management  process Potential  duplicates  identified?No  duplicates  identifiedPotential  duplicates  identified2 Yes No 4 Proceed with  signal  management Finalise  signal  management4.1 4.2 4.3Proceed with  signal  management End5 5.1 5.2Potential  duplicates  identified Inform EMA  about  duplicatesYes 3 3.1 Proceed as  outlined in  Fig VI.8 (DD same  Sender)Proceed as  outlined in  Fig VI.9 DD different  Senders)EMA DD Management Process EMA to  notify signal  validator  about DD  outcome.3.2 3.3    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 220/225           Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 221/225     Table VI.18.  Process description  - Duplicate Detection (DD) in EudraVigilance – Collaboration  between the Agency, competent authorities in Member States  (NCAs)  and marketing authorisation  holders ( MAHs ) - Duplicate ICSRs identified as part of signal man agement process based on  EudraVigilance data . See process map in Figure VI.12. Process description - Duplicates identified as  part of signal management based on EudraVigilance data  as outlined in GVP Module IX   No Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation    Start .   Duplicates identified as part of signal  management as outlined in GVP Module IX .   Example: Aas part of the signal management process  based on EudraVigilance data  as outlined in GVP  Module IX , there may be instances where a signal  validator of the  Agency, a Member State or a MAH  may identify potential duplicate  ICSRs.    1 Signal Management  process .in line with  GVP Module IX  Signals are assessed in line with GVP Module IX   based on electronic Reaction Monitoring Reports  (eRMRs), case line listings and individual case report  forms generated by EudraVigilance (EVDAS) . Go to  step 2.   Signal vali dator  (EMA/  NCA/  MAH)   2 Potential duplicates   identified ? As part of the review of thea signal there may be  individual cases identified that could be potential  duplicates from the signal validator’s perspective:   If potential duplicates are identified, proc eed as  outlined under steppoint 3 and steppoint 4.    If no potential duplicate are identified, proceed as  outlined under steppoint 5.  Signal validator  (EMA/  NCA/  MAH)   3 Potential duplicates  have been identified . Potential duplicates have been identified  as part of  the review of a signal . Go to step 3. 1 Signal validator  (EMA/  NCA/  MAH)   3.1 Send e -mail to  dedicated  mailbox Inform EMA  about duplicates.  Send detail request for the verification of the  duplicates to  with the Worldwide Unique Case  Identifier fo r all individual cases, which are  considered as potential duplicates Inform EMA by  email (duplicates@ema.europa.eu ) about the  potential identified duplicate ICSR s. Go to step 3.2   Signal validator  (EMA/  NCA/  MAH)  3.2 EMA to r Review  notification . EMA to review notification of potential duplicates and  initiate duplicate management process .  If duplicates are from the same Ssender  organisation, proceed as outlined in Figure VI.8  and  Table VI.14 .   If duplicates are from different Ssender  organisations, proceed as outlined in Figure VI.9  and  Table VI.15 .  EMA     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 222/225     No Step  Description  Responsible  Organisation   Go to step 3.3.   3.3 EMA to Nnotify  signal validator  about the outcome  of the DD outcome.   duplicate  management   EMA informs Inform  the Ssignal Vvalidator about the  outcome of the duplicate management process . Go to  step 4.2.  EMA    3.4 Record the outcome  of the duplicate  management   Record the outcome of the duplicate management  EMA  3.5 End    4 Potential duplicates  identified .Potential  duplicates have  been identified  Potential duplicates have been identified  as part of  the signal management activities.  Go to step 4.2  Signal validato r  (EMA/  NCA/  MAH)   4.1 Proceed with signal  management . Proceed with the review of the signal in line with GVP  Module IX  guidance. Go to step 4.2. Signal validator  (EMA/NCA/   MAH)   4.2 Finalise signal  management . Finalise  the management of the  signal   management  based on duplicate detection management feedback  from EMA  (step 3.3) . Go to step 4.3.   Signal validator  (EMA/  NCA/  MAH)   4.3 End.    5 No (potential)  duplicates have  been  identified duplicates  identified.  No (potential) duplicates have been identified  as part  of the review of a signal.  Go to step 5.1.  Signal validator  (EMA/  NCA/  MAH)   5.1 Procee d with signal  management . Proceed with the review of the signal in line with GVP  Module IX GVP M odule IX  guidance. Go to step 5.2.  Signal validator  (EMA/  NCA/  MAH)   5.2 End.           Guideline on good pharmacovi gilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 223/225     VI. Appendix 8 Examples of assesment of case validity .   Examples of assessment of the validity individual reports  based on reporter and patient  identifiability .   N o.  Examples of case report s (source:  Report of CIOMS Working Group V , 2001 )   Validity a ssessment    1  Dr. Isabella Queen reports that her  patient, a 34 year old white male (initials A.V.)  experienced hair loss after taking drug X. Dr.  Queen’s address and phone number a re  available.   Valid case .   Identifi able reporter and qualification.    Patient’s qualifying descriptors  available (initials, age, gender).    2  Dr. Isabella Queen reports her patient, a  male, was reported to have experienced hair  loss after taking drug X. Dr. Qu een’s phone  number is available.   Valid case .   Identifi able reporter and qualification.    Patient’s qualifyin g descriptor available  (gender).    3  Dr. Feelgood reports that 2 patients  were reported to have given birth, to a  premature female infant in one case an d a  premature male infant in another, while on  drug X. Dr.’s phone number and address are  available.   Valid case .   Identifiable reporter and qualification .   2 patients with qualifying  descriptors  available (gender).    4  Dr. Bones reports via e -mail that her  patient (initials X.X.) developed a melanoma  after taking drug Z. While the physician’s e - mail address is available, attempts to reach  her yielded no response. Address and phone  number are not available.   Valid case .   Identifiable reporter and qualification.    Patient’s qualifying descriptor available  (initials).    5  A report from a Dr describes a patient  (initials X.X.) who developed a melanoma after  taking drug Z. No contact details are available  regarding the reporter and the case cannot be  followed -up.  Non-valid case .   Reporter qualification provided but no  contact parameters available  to allow  verification  of the case .   6  Dr. Bones reports via e -mail that her  patient developed a melanoma after taking  drug X. Dr. Bone’s address and phone number  are not available , but she does respond by e - mail.  Non-valid case .   Identifiable reporter and qualification.    No patient’s qualifying descriptor  available.    Report  should be followed -up.    7  An employee of a drug company is at a  barbecue at the house of paediatrician, Dr.  Wiener, his neighbour. He hears from Dr.  Wiener about his patient who developed  Non-valid case .   Identifiable reporter and qualification.      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 224/225      N o.  Examples of case report s (source:  Report of CIOMS Working Group V , 2001 )   Validity a ssessment   hepatitis three weeks after one injection of the  company’s drug X. The employee sends a  memo to the drug safety department with the  clinical details he remembered on the patient  and also includes Dr.Wiener’s address and  phone number.   No patient’s qualifying descriptor  available.    Report  should be followed -up.    8  Dr. Lindbergh on a commercial airplane  flight from Paris to Ne w York is seated next to  an employee from a drug company. Dr.  Lindbergh talks about his patient who  experienced severe depression after taking the  company’s drug A (an oral contraceptive). The  company employee, a marketing manager,  reports the case to his drug safety department  and provides the physician’s business card.   Valid case .   Identifiable reporter and qualification.    Patient’s qualifying descriptors  available  (gender) . Patient  presumably  female as suspected product is an oral  contraceptive .   9  The saf ety department of pharmaceutical  company A sends to company B a report it  received of a 23 year old female who  developed Stevens Johnson Syndrome after  taking drug A (a company A product) and drug  B (a company B product). On follow -up with  the reporting ph ysician, Company A is told that  their drug is not considered as a suspect causal  agent. Company A sends the contact  information on the identifiable physician to  company B.   Valid case .   Identifiable reporter and qualification.    Patient’s qualifying descriptor  available  (age and gender ).   1 0  Professor Messer presents a paper at a  medical convention (either orally or as a poster  presentation) on a patient that developed  thyroiditis after long -term therapy with Drug X.  The paper is seen (or heard) by a company  employee who reports it to the drug safety  department.   Non-valid case .   Identifiable reporter and qualification.    No patient’s qualifying descriptor  available.    Report  should be followed -up.   1 1  The International Herald Tribune  publishes an article describing a 5 year old  patient who died after Drug Y ingestion. There  is no physician mentioned and no author is  listed for the article. The editor of the IHT (or,  for example, a reader of the paper) forwards  the article to the company.   Valid case .   Identifiable repo rter and qualification  (Editor to IHT, non -HCP).   Patient’s qualifying descriptor available  (age).    1 2  A company employee reads in a  newspaper that several patients at  Massachusetts General Hospital have given  birth prematurely while taking drug X.   Non-valid case .   Identifiable reporter and qualification  (Author of article or Journal editor, non -HCP).   No patient ’s qualifying descriptor   available .      Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module VI  (Rev 2)    EMA/873138 /2011  Rev 2  Track -change version following public consultation (not to be quoted as final)  Page 225/225      N o.  Examples of case report s (source:  Report of CIOMS Working Group V , 2001 )   Validity a ssessment    Report  should be followed -up.   1 3  Pharmacist Gene Type reports that a  neighbour told him that a female taking dru g Z  had dyspepsia at that neighbour’s house last  week. Only the pharmacist’s address and  phone number are available. Further  information is not forthcoming despite rigorous  follow -up.  Non-valid case .   No identifiable reporter and  qualification  (second hand information ).   Patient’s qualifying descriptor available.    Report  should be followed -up.    1 4  Dr. NoRed Cell reports that 6 patients  developed aplastic anemia while on drug X.  Dr.’s address and phone number are not  available, but his/ her e -mail address is given.   Non-valid case .   Identifiable reporter and qualification.    Report describing definite number of  patients with no qualifying descriptor  available  for each patient .    Report  should be followed -up.   1 5  Dr. Onko Gene communicates to a  company that 50 patie nts developed ovarian  cancer while on drug X. The Dr.’s address,  phone number and e -mail address are  available, but attempts to reach her by the  usual means are unsuccessful.   Non-valid case .   Identifiable reporter and qualification.   Table VI.15.  Report describing defini te  number of patients with no qualifying  descriptor available for each patient.    Report  should be followed -up as  possible .   


 
https://clinchoice.com/pharmacovigilance-literature-monitoring-best-practices/
https://database.ich.org/sites/default/files/E2D_Guideline.pdf
INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON HARMONISATION OF TECHNICAL  REQUIREMENTS FOR REGISTRATION OF PHARMACEUTICALS FOR HUMAN  USE      ICH  HARMONISED TRIPARTITE GUIDELINE       POST-APPROVAL SAFETY DATA MANAGEMENT :  DEFINITIONS AND STANDARDS FOR EXPEDITED REPORTING   E2D      Current Step 4  version  dated 12 November 2003              This Guideline has been developed by the app ropriate ICH Expert Working Group and has  been subject to consultation by  the regulatory parties, in accordance with the ICH Process.   At Step 4 of the Process the final draft is reco mmended for adoption to the regulatory bodies  of the European Union, Japan and USA.       E2D  Document History    First  Codification History Date New  Codification  November  2005   E2D Approval by the Steering Committee under Step 2  and  release for public consultation. 18   July   2003 E2D  Current Step 4 version  E2D Approval by the Steering Committee under Step 4 and  recommendation for adoption to the three ICH regulatory  bodies. 12  November  2003 E2D         POST-APPROVAL SAFETY DATA MANAGEMENT :  DEFINITIONS AND STANDARDS FOR EXPEDITED REPORTING   ICH Harmonised Tripartite Guideline  Having reached Step 4 of the ICH Process at the ICH Steering Committee meeting   on 12 November 2003, this guideline is recommended for   adoption to the three regulatory parties to ICH    TABLE  OF CONTENTS    1. INTRODUCTION .................................................................................................... 1   2. DEFINITIONS AND TERMINOLOGY ASSOCIATED   WITH POST-APPROVAL DRUG SAFETY EXPERIENCE ............................. 1   2.1 Adverse Event (AE) ................................................................................................... 1   2.2 Adverse Drug Reaction (ADR) .................................................................................. 1   2.3 Serious AE/ADR ........................................................................................................ 1   2.4 Unexpected ADR ....................................................................................................... 2   2.5 Healthcare Professional ............................................................................................ 2   2.6 Consumer ................................................................................................................... 2   3. SOURCES Of INDIVIDUAL CASE SAFETY REPORTS ................................ 3   3.1 Unsolicited Sources ................................................................................................... 3   3.1.1 Spontaneous Reports .................................................................................... 3   3.1.2 Literature ...................................................................................................... 3   3.1.3 Internet ......................................................................................................... 3   3.1.4 Other Sources ................................................................................................ 4   3.2 Solicited Sources ....................................................................................................... 4   3.3 Contractual Agreements ........................................................................................... 4   3.4 Regulatory Authority Sources .................................................................................. 4   4. STANDARDS FOR EXPEDITED REPORTING ............................................... 5   4.1 What Should Be Reported? ....................................................................................... 5   4.1.1 Serious ADRs ................................................................................................ 5   4.1.2 Other Observations ...................................................................................... 5   4.1.2.1 Lack of Efficacy ............................................................................. 5   i Post-Approval Safety Data Management:  Definitions and Standards for Expedited Reporting    4.1.2.2 Overdose ........................................................................................ 5   4.2 Minimum Criteria for Reporting .............................................................................. 5   4.3 Reporting Time Frames ............................................................................................ 6   4.4 Non-serious ADRs ..................................................................................................... 6   5. GOOD CASE MANAGEMENT PRACTICES ..................................................... 6   5.1 Assessing Patient and Reporter Identifiability1...................................................... 6   5.2 The Role of Narratives .............................................................................................. 7   5.3 Clinical Case Evaluation .......................................................................................... 7   5.4 Follow-up Information .............................................................................................. 7   5.4.1 Pregnancy Exposure ..................................................................................... 8   5.5 How to Report ............................................................................................................ 8   REFERENCES ....................................................................................................................... 9   ATTACHMENT ..................................................................................................................... 10         ii   1 POST-APPROVAL SAFETY DATA MANAGEMENT :  DEFINITIONS AND STANDARDS FOR EXPEDITED REPORTING     1. INTRODUCTION  It is important to establish an internationally standardized procedure in order to  improve the quality of post-approval safety information and to harmonise the way of  gathering and reporting information.  Th e ICH E2A guideline provides guidance on  pre-approval safety data management. Al though many stakeholders have applied  ICH E2A concepts to the post-approval phas e, there is a need to provide further  guidance on definitions and standards for post-approval expedited reporting, as well  as good case management practices.  This guideline is based on the content of ICH E2A guideline, with consideration as to ho w the terms and definitions can be applied  in the post-approval phase of the product life cycle.  2. DEFINITIONS AND TERMINOL OGY ASSOCIATED WITH POST- APPROVAL DRUG SAFETY EXPERIENCE  2.1 Adverse Event (AE)  An adverse event is any untoward medical occurrence in a patient administered a medicinal product and which does not necessa rily have to have a causal relationship  with this treatment.  An adverse even t can therefore be any unfavorable and  unintended sign (for example, an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered  related to this medicinal product.  2.2 Adverse Drug Reaction (ADR)   Adverse drug reactions, as established by regional regulations, guidance, and  practices, concern noxious and unintende d responses to a medicinal product.  The phrase “responses to a medicinal product” means that a causal relationship  between a medicinal product and an adverse event is at least a reasonable possibility  (refer to the ICH E2A guideline).  A reaction, in contrast to an event, is characterized by the fact that a causal  relationship between the drug and the o ccurrence is suspected.  For regulatory  reporting purposes, if an event is spontaneously reported, even if the relationship is  unknown or unstated, it meets the definition of an adverse drug reaction.   2.3 Serious AE/ADR  In accordance with the ICH E2A guideline, a serious adverse event or reaction is any  untoward medical occurrence that at any dose:  * results in death,  * is life-threatening (NOTE: The term “life-threatening” in the definition of “serious” refers to an  event/reaction in which the patient was at risk of death at the time of the event/reaction; it does not refer to an event/ reaction which hypothetically  might have caused death if it were more severe),  * requires inpatient hospitalisation or results in prolongation of existing  hospitalisation,  * results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, Post-Approval Safety Data Management:  Definitions and Standards for Expedited Reporting    2 * is a congenital anomaly/birth defect,  * is a medically important event or reaction.  Medical and scientific judgment should be exercised in deciding whether other  situations should be considered serious such as important medical events that  might not be immediately life-threatening or result in death or hospitalisation  but might jeopardise the patient or migh t require intervention to prevent one  of the other outcomes listed in the definition above.  Examples of such events  are intensive treatment in an emergenc y room or at home for allergic  bronchospasm, blood dyscrasias or convulsions that do not result in  hospitalization, or development of  drug dependency or drug abuse.  2.4 Unexpected ADR  An ADR whose nature, severity, specificity, or outcome is not consistent with the term  or description used in the local/regional  product labeling (e.g. Package Insert or  Summary of Product Characteristics) should be considered unexpected.  When a Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) is uncertain whether an ADR is expected or  unexpected, the ADR should be treated as unexpected.  An expected ADR with a fatal outcome should be considered unexpected unless the  local/regional product labeling specifically states that the ADR might be associated  with a fatal outcome.   “Class ADRs” should not automatically be considered to be expected for the subject  drug. “Class ADRs” should be considered ex pected only if described as specifically  occurring with the product in the local/regional product labeling.  This is illustrated in the following examples:  • “As with other drugs of this class, the following undesirable effect occurs with  Drug X.”  • “Drugs of this class, including Drug X, can cause...”  If the ADR has not been documented with Drug X, statements such as the following are likely to appear in the local/regional product labeling:    • “Other drugs of this class are reported to cause…”  • “Drugs of this class are reported to cause..., but no reports have been received  to date with Drug X.”   In these situations, the ADR should not be considered as expected for Drug X.  NOTE: The term “listedness” is not applicable to expedited reporting but should be  used to characterize the ADR according to the Company Core Safety Information  (refer to ICH E2C guideline for definitions).   2.5 Healthcare Professional  Healthcare professional is defined as a medi cally-qualified person such as a physician,  dentist, pharmacist, nurse, coroner, or as otherwise specified by local regulations.   2.6 Consumer  Consumer is defined as a person who is not a healthcare professional such as a  patient, lawyer, friend, or relative of a patient.  Post-Approval Safety Data Management:  Definitions and Standards for Expedited Reporting    3 3. SOURCES Of INDIVIDUAL CASE SAFETY REPORTS   3.1 Unsolicited Sources  3.1.1 Spontaneous Reports  A spontaneous report is an unsolicited communi cation by a healthcare professional or  consumer to a company, regulatory autho rity or other organization (e.g. WHO,  Regional Center, Poison Control Center) th at describes one or more adverse drug  reactions in a patient who was given one or  more medicinal products and that does  not derive from a study or any organized data collection scheme.  Stimulated reporting can occur in certain si tuations, such as notification by a “Dear  Healthcare Professional” letter, publication in the press, or questioning of healthcare  professionals by company representatives.   These reports should be considered  spontaneous.  Consumer adverse reaction reports shou ld be handled as spontaneous reports  irrespective of any subsequent “medical co nfirmation”.  Regulatory Authorities might  require medical confirmation for the purpos e of expedited reporting. Emphasis should  be placed on the quality of the report and not on its source.  Even if reports received  from consumers do not qualify for regulatory reporting, the cases should be retained.   3.1.2 Literature   Each MAH is expected to regularly screen  the worldwide scientific literature by  accessing widely used systematic literat ure reviews or reference databases.  The  frequency of the literature searches should be according to local requirements or at least every two weeks. Cases of ADRs from the scientific and medical literature, including relevant published abstracts from meetings and draft manuscripts, might  qualify for expedited reporting.  A regulatory  reporting form with relevant medical  information should be provided for each identifiable patient.  The publication  reference(s) should be given as the report source; additionally a copy of the article  might be requested by the local regulatory  authority to accompany the report.  All  company offices are encouraged to be aware of publications in their local journals and to bring them to the attention of the co mpany safety department as appropriate.   The regulatory reporting time clock starts  as soon as the MAH has knowledge that  the case meets minimum criteria for reportability.   If the product source, brand, or trade name is not specified, the MAH should assume that it was its product, although the report should indicate that the specific brand was not identified.  If multiple products are mentioned in the a rticle, a report should be submitted only by  the applicant whose product is suspected.  The suspect product is that identified as such by the article's author.    3.1.3 Internet   MAHs should regularly screen websites und er their management or responsibility for  potential ADR case reports.  MAHs are not expected to screen external websites for  ADR information. However, if an MAH be comes aware of an adverse reaction on a  website that it does not manage, the MAH should review the case and determine  whether it should be reported.   Post-Approval Safety Data Management:  Definitions and Standards for Expedited Reporting    4 MAHs should consider utilising their websites to facilitate ADR data collection, e.g.,  by providing ADR forms for reporting or by  providing appropriate contact details for  direct communication.    Unsolicited cases from the Internet should be handled as spontaneous reports. For the  determination of reportability, the same criteria should be applied as for cases provided via other ways.    In relation to such cases from the Internet e.g. e-mail, identifiability of the reporter  refers to the existence of a real person, i.e., it is possible to verify that the patient and  the reporter exist.  3.1.4 Other Sources  If an MAH becomes aware of a case report from  non-medical sources, e.g. the lay press  or other media, it should be handled as a spontaneous report.  For the determination of reportability, the same criteria shou ld be applied as for other reports.   3.2 Solicited Sources  Solicited reports are those derived from organized data collection systems, which  include clinical trials, registries, post-a pproval named patient use programs, other  patient support and disease management programs, surveys of patients or healthcare  providers, or information gathering on effi cacy or patient compliance.  Adverse event  reports obtained from any of these should not be considered spontaneous.   For the purposes of safety reporting, solicited reports should be classified as study reports, and therefore should have an appropriate causality assessment by a  healthcare professional or an MAH.  Furth er guidance on study-related issues, such  as managing blinded therapy cases, can be found in the ICH E2A guideline.  3.3 Contractual Agreements  The marketing of many medicines increas ingly takes place through contractual  agreements between two or more companies, which may market same product in the same or different countries/region.  Arrang ements vary considerably with respect to  inter-company communication and regulatory re sponsibilities.  Overall, this can be a  complex issue.  In such relationships, it is very impo rtant that explicit licensing/contractual  agreements specify the processes for exc hange of safety information, including  timelines and regulatory reporting respon sibilities. Safety personnel should be  involved in development of any agreements from the beginning.  Processes should be  in place to avoid duplicate reporting to the regulatory  authority, e.g. assigning  responsibility to one company for literature screening.    Whatever the nature of the arrangement, the MAH is ultimately responsible for regulatory reporting. Therefore, every reas onable effort should be made between the  contracting partners to minimize the da ta exchange period so as to promote  compliance with MAH responsibilities.  3.4 Regulatory Authority Sources  Individual serious unexpected adverse drug reaction reports originating from foreign regulatory authorities are subject to expedited reporting to other authorities by each  MAH.  Re-submission of serious ADR cases without new information to the Post-Approval Safety Data Management:  Definitions and Standards for Expedited Reporting    5 originating regulatory authority is not us ually necessary, unless otherwise specified  by local regulation.  4. STANDARDS FOR EXPEDITED REPORTING  4.1 What Should Be Reported?  4.1.1 Serious ADRs  Cases of adverse drug reactions that are both serious and unexpected are subject to  expedited reporting.  The reporting of se rious expected reactions in an expedited  manner varies among countries.  Non-serious adverse reactions, whether expected or  not, would normally not be subject to expedited reporting.    For reports from studies and other solicited sources, all cases judged by either the  reporting healthcare professional or the MAH as having a possible causal relationship to the medicinal product would qualify as  ADRs.  For purposes of reporting,  spontaneous reports associated with ap proved drugs imply a suspected causal  relationship.  4.1.2 Other Observations   In addition to single case reports, any safe ty information from other observations that  could change the risk-benefit evaluation fo r the product should be communicated as  soon as possible to the regulatory authori ties in accordance with local regulation.  Examples include any significant unanticipat ed safety findings from an in vitro,  animal, epidemiological, or clinical study that suggest a significant human risk, such  as evidence of mutagenicity, teratogenicity, carcinogenicity, or lack of efficacy with a drug used in treating a life-threatening or serious disease.  4.1.2.1 Lack of Efficacy   Evidence of lack of efficacy should not norm ally be expedited, but should be discussed  in the relevant periodic safety update re port. However, in certain circumstances and  in some regions, individual reports of la ck of efficacy are considered subject to  expedited reporting. Medicinal products used for the treatment of life-threatening or  serious diseases, vaccines, and contraceptiv es are examples of classes of medicinal  products where lack of efficacy should be considered for expedited reporting.  Clinical  judgment should be used in reporting, with consideration of the local product labeling and disease being treated.   4.1.2.2 Overdose   Reports of overdose with no associated adverse outcome should not be reported as adverse reactions.  Cases associated with  serious adverse reactions are considered  subject to expedited reporting, unless otherw ise specified by local regulation.  They  should be routinely followed up to ensure that the information is as complete as  possible with regard to symptoms, treatment, and outcome.  The MAH should collect  any available information on overdose related to its products.   4.2 Minimum Criteria for Reporting    It is recommended that as much information as possible be collected at the time of the  initial report.  However, for the purpose of regulatory reporting, the minimum data  elements for an ADR case are: an identifiab le reporter, an identifiable patient, an  adverse reaction, and a suspect product.  La ck of any of these four elements means Post-Approval Safety Data Management:  Definitions and Standards for Expedited Reporting    6 that the case is considered incomplete; ho wever, MAHs are expected to exercise due  diligence to collect the missing data elements.  4.3 Reporting Time Frames  In general, expedited reporting of serious and unexpected ADRs is required as soon as  possible, but in no case later than 15 calendar days of initial receipt of the information  by the MAH.  Time frames for other type s of serious reports vary among countries,  depending on source, expectedness and outcome.   The regulatory reporting time clock is co nsidered to start on the date when any  personnel of the MAH first receive a case report that fulfills minimum criteria as well as the criteria for expedited reporting.  In general, this date should be considered  day 0.  When additional medically relevant informat ion is received for a previously reported  case, the reporting time clock is considered to begin again for submission of the follow- up report.  In addition, a case initially classified as a non-ex pedited report, would  qualify for expedited reporting upon receipt of follow-up information that indicates  the case should be re-classified (e.g., from non serious to serious).    4.4 Non-serious ADRs  Cases of non-serious ADRs, whether expe cted or not, would not normally be  considered reportable on an expedited basis.  Non-serious ADRs should be included in  the periodic safety update report acco rding to the ICH E2C guideline.    5. GOOD CASE MANAGEMENT PRACTICES  Accurate, complete, and bona fide inform ation is very important for MAHs and  regulatory agencies identifying and assessi ng ADR reports.  Both are faced with the  task of acquiring sufficient information to help ensure that the reports are authentic,  accurate, as complete as possible, and non-duplicative.   5.1 Assessing Patient and Reporter Identifiability1 Patient and reporter identifiability is important to avoid case duplication, detect fraud, and facilitate follow-up of appropriat e cases.  The term identifiable in this  context refers to the verification of th e existence of a patient and a reporter.   Local data privacy laws regarding patient and reporter identifiability might apply.   One or more of the following should autom atically qualify a patient as identifiable:  age (or age category, e.g., adolescent, adult,  elderly), gender, initials, date of birth,  name, or patient identification number.  In addition, in the event of second-hand reports, every reasonable effort should be  made to verify the existence of an  identifiable patient and reporter.  All parties supplying case information or approached for case information should be identifiable: not only the initial reporter (t he initial contact for the case), but also  others supplying information.   In the absence of qualifying descriptors, a report referring  to a definite number of  patients should not be regarded as a ca se until the minimum four criteria for case  reporting are met.  For example, “Two pa tients experienced…” or “ a few patients  experienced” should be followed up for patient-identifiable information before  regulatory reporting.  Post-Approval Safety Data Management:  Definitions and Standards for Expedited Reporting    7 5.2 The Role of Narratives   The objective of the narrative is to summarize all relevant clinical and related  information, including patient characteri stics, therapy details, medical history,  clinical course of the event(s), diagno sis, and ADR(s) including the outcome,  laboratory evidence (including normal ranges), and any other information that  supports or refutes an ADR.  The narrative should serve as a comprehensive, stand-alone “medical story”. The information should be presented in a logical time sequence;  ideally this should be presented in the chronology of the patient’s experience, rather  than in the chronology in which the information was received.  In follow-up reports, new information should be clearly identified.  Abbreviations and acronyms should be avoi ded, with the possible exception of  laboratory parameters and units.  Key information from supplementary records  should be included in the report, and their availability should be mentioned in the  narrative and supplied on request.  Any re levant autopsy or post-mortem findings  should also be summarized in the narrative and related documents should be  provided according to local regulation and if allowed by local data privacy laws.    Terms (e.g., AEs/ADRs, indication, and medica l conditions) in the narrative should be  accurately reflected in appropriate data fields.  5.3 Clinical Case Evaluation   The purpose of careful medical review is to  ensure correct interpretation of medical  information.  Preferably, information about  the case should be collected from the  healthcare professionals who are directly invo lved in the patient’s care. Regardless of  the source of an ADR report, the recipient should carefully review the report for the  quality and completeness of the medical information. The review should include, but  is not limited to, the following considerations:   •  Is a diagnosis possible?   •  Have the relevant diagnostic procedures been performed?   •  Were alternative causes of the reaction(s) considered?   •  What additional information is needed?   ADR terms should be used consistently  and in accordance with recommended  standards for diagnosis, if possible.  The report should include the verbatim term as used by the reporter, or an accurate tr anslation of it.  Any company personnel  receiving reports should provide an unbiased  and unfiltered report of the information  from the reporter.  While th e report recipient is encourag ed to actively query the  reporter to elicit the most complete acco unt possible, inferences and imputations  should be avoided in report submission.  Ho wever, clearly identified evaluations by  the MAH are considered appropriate and are required by some regulatory authorities.  When a case is reported by a consumer, his/her description of the event should be retained, although confirmatory or addi tional information from any relevant  healthcare professionals should also be sought and included.    5.4 Follow-up Information   The information from ADR cases when first received is generally incomplete. Ideally,  comprehensive information would be availabl e on all cases, but in practice efforts Post-Approval Safety Data Management:  Definitions and Standards for Expedited Reporting    8 should be made to seek additional inform ation on selected reports, including second – hand reports (see Attachment, Recommended Key Data Elements, of this guideline).   In any scheme to optimize the value of follow-up, the first consideration should be  prioritization of case reports by importance.   The priority for follow-up should be as  follows: cases which are 1) serious and unexp ected, 2) serious and expected, and 3)  non-serious and unexpected. In addition to  seriousness and expectedness as criteria,  cases “of special interest” also deserve extra attention as a high priority (e.g., ADRs  under active surveillance at the request of the regulators), as well as any cases that  might lead to a labeling change decision.  Follow-up information should be obtained, via a telephone call and/or site visit and/or  a written request.  The company should prov ide specific questions it would like to  have answered.  Follow-up methods should be tailored towards optimizing the collection of missing information.  Writte n confirmation of details given verbally  should be obtained whenever possible.  In exceptional circumstances, if requests for  information have been refused by the reporter,  a regulatory authority might be able to  assist an MAH in obtaining follow-up data.  To facilitate the capture of clinically relevant and complete information, use of a  targeted questionnaire/specific form is encour aged, preferably at the time of the initial  report.  Ideally, healthcare professionals with thorough pharmacovigilance training  and therapeutic expertise should be involved  in the collection and the direct follow-up  of reported cases (particularly those of medical significance).  For serious ADRs, it is  important to continue follow-up and re port new information until the outcome has  been established or the condition is stabilized.  How long to follow up such cases is a  matter of judgment.  It is important that at the time of the original report, sufficient details about the  patient and reporter be collecte d and retained to enable future investigations, within  the constraints imposed by local data privacy laws.  5.4.1 Pregnancy Exposure  MAHs are expected to follow up all pregnanc y reports from healthcare professionals  or consumers where the embryo/foetus could have been exposed to one of its medicinal  products.  When an active substance, or on e of its metabolites, has a long half-life,  this should be taken into account when considering whether a foetus could have been  exposed (e.g., if medicinal products taken before the gestational period should be  considered).    5.5 How to Report   The CIOMS I form has been a widely acce pted standard for expedited adverse event  reporting.  However, no matte r what the form or format used, it is important that  certain basic information/data elements, when available, be included with any  expedited report, whether in a tabular or narrative presentation.  It is recommended that the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) be used for coding  medical information.  The standards for el ectronic submission of Individual Case  Safety Reports (ICSRs), according to the ICH E2B/M2 guidelines, should be  implemented.   The listing in the Attachment of this guideline addresses those data elements  regarded as desirable; if all relevant el ements are not available at the time of  expedited reporting, efforts should be made to obtain them.  Post-Approval Safety Data Management:  Definitions and Standards for Expedited Reporting    9 REFERENCES     1. Current Challenges in Pharmacovigilanc e: Pragmatic Approaches (Report of  CIOMS Working V), Geneva 2001  2. Rules Governing Medicinal Products in the European Union, Volume 9,  PHARMACOVIGILANCE: Medicinal Products for Human Use, 2001  http://pharmacos.eudra.org/F2/eudralex/vol-9/home.htm   3. Guidance for Industry: Postmarketing Safety Reporting for Human Drug and  Biological Products Including Vaccines, Food and Drug Administration, March  2001 (draft) http://www.fda.gov/cder/guidance/4153dft.pdf   4. Safety Reporting Requirements for Hu man Drug and Biological Products,  Proposed Rule, Food and Drug Administration, March 2003  5. Notification No 421 on Enforcement of the Law Revising Partially the   Pharmaceutical Affairs Law, the Dire ctor General, Pharmaceutical Affairs  Bureau, Ministry of Health and Welfare, March 1997     Post-Approval Safety Data Management:  Definitions and Standards for Expedited Reporting    10 ATTACHMENT  RECOMMENDED  KEY  DATA  ELEMENTS  FOR  INCLUSION    IN EXPEDITED  REPORTS    OF SERIOUS  ADVERSE  DRUG  REACTIONS  Some data elements might not be rele vant, depending on the circumstances.   Attempts should be made to obtain follow- up information on as many other listed  items as are pertinent to the case.  Refer to the ICH E2B/M2 guidelines for detailed  data elements for electronic transmission of ICSRs.  1. Patient Details  • Initials   • Other relevant identifier (p atient number, for example)  • Gender  • Age, age category (e.g., adolescent, adult, elderly), or date of birth  • Concomitant conditions  • Medical history  • Relevant family history  2. Suspected Medicinal Product(s)  • Brand name as reported  • International Non-Proprietary Name (INN)  • Batch/lot number  • Indication(s) for which suspect medici nal product was prescribed or tested  • Dosage form and strength  • Daily dose (specify units - e.g., mg, ml, mg/kg) and regimen   • Route of administration  • Starting date and time   • Stopping date and time, or duration of treatment  3. Other Treatment(s)  The same information as in item 2 should be provided for the following:   • Concomitant medicinal products   (including non-prescription, over-the -counter medicinal products, herbal  remedies, dietary supplements, comple mentary and alternative therapies,  etc.)  • Relevant medical devices Post-Approval Safety Data Management:  Definitions and Standards for Expedited Reporting    11 4. Details (all available) of Adverse Drug Reaction(s)   • Full description of reaction(s), in cluding body site and severity   • The criterion (or criteria) for re garding the report as serious   • Description of the reported signs and symptoms  • Specific diagnosis for the reaction  • Onset date (and time) of reaction  • Stop date (and time) or duration of reaction  • Dechallenge and rechallenge information  • Relevant diagnostic test results and laboratory data  • Setting (e.g., hospital, out-patient clinic, home, nursing home)  • Outcome (recovery and any sequelae)   • For a fatal outcome, stated cause of death   • Relevant autopsy or post-mortem findings   • Relatedness of product to reaction(s)/event(s)  5. Details on Reporter of an ADR  • Name  • Mailing address  • Electronic mail address  • Telephone and/or facsimile number  • Reporter type (consumer, heal thcare professional, etc.)  • Profession (specialty)  6. Administrative and MAH Details  • Source of report (spontaneous, epid emiological study, patient survey,  literature, etc.)  • Date the event report was first re ceived by manufacturer/company  • Country in which the event occurred  • Type (initial or follow-up) and seque nce (first, second, etc.) of case  information reported to authorities   • Name and address of MAH  • Name, address, electronic mail address, telephone number, and facsimile  number of contact person of MAH   • Identifying regulatory code or numbe r for marketing authorisation dossier  • Company/manufacturer's identification number for the case (the same number should be used for the initia l and follow-up reports on the same  case). 


 
https://clinchoice.com/pharmacovigilance-literature-monitoring-best-practices/
https://ema.europa.eu/en/documents/scientific-guideline/guideline-good-pharmacovigilance-practices-gvp-module-iv-pharmacovigilance-audits-rev-1_en.pdf
  See websites for contact details   European Medicines Agency  www.ema.europa.eu   Heads of Medic ines Agencies  www.hma.eu  The European Medicines Agency is   an agency of the European Union        © European Medicines Agency and Heads of Medicines Agencies, 2015.  Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowle dged.    3 August 2015  EMA/228028/2012  Rev 1*    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance  practices (GVP)   Module IV –  Pharmacovigilance audit s (Rev 1)   Draft finalised by the Agency in collaboration with Member States and submitted  to ERMS FG  12 July 2012   Draft agreed by ERMS FG  20 July 2012   Draft adopted by Executive Director  25 July 2012   Start of public consultation  26 July 2012   End of consultation (deadline for comments)  21 September 2012   Revised draft finalised by the Agency in collaboration with Member States  5 December 2012   Revised draft agreed by ERMS FG  6 December 2012   Revised draft adopted by Executive Director as final  12 December 2012   Date for coming into effect  13 December 2012   Draft Revision 1* finalised by the Agency in collaboration with Member States  2 July 2015  Draft Revision 1 agreed by the European Risk Management Facilitation Group  (ERMS FG ) 16 July 2015   Draft Revision 1 adopted by Executive Director as final 3 August 2015  Date for coming into effect of Revision 1  12 August 2015     *Note: Revision 1 contains the following:   - addition of an explanatory note for the definition of audit in footnote 3  on page 5 ;  - editorial improvements in line with the overall GVP style.     Guideline on good p harmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module IV  (Rev 1)   EMA/228028/2012  Rev 1  Page 2/12   Table of contents   IV.A. Introduction  ................................ ................................ .......................  3  IV.A.1. Terminology ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 4  IV.B. Structures and processes ................................ ................................ .... 5  IV.B.1. Pharmacovigilance audit and its objective  ................................ ...........................  5  IV.B.2. The risk- based approach to pharmacovigilance audits  ................................ ...........  5  IV.B.2.1.Strategic level audit planning  ................................ ................................ ...........  5  IV.B.2.2. Tactical level audit planning  ................................ ................................ ............  7  IV.B.2.3. Operational level audit planning a nd reporting  ................................ ..................  7  IV.B.2.3.1. Planning and fieldwork  ................................ ................................ ................  7  IV.B.2.3.2. Reporting  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 8  IV.B.2.4. Actions based on audit  outcomes  and follow -up of audits  ................................ ... 8  IV.B.3. Quality system and record management practices  ................................ ................  9  IV.B.3.1. Competence of auditors and quality management of audit activities  .....................  9  IV.B.3.1.1. Independence and objectivity of audit work and auditors  ................................ . 9  IV.B.3.1.2. Qualifications, skills and experience of auditors and continuing professional  development  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..............  9  IV.B.3.1.3. Evaluation of the quality of audit activities  ................................ .....................  9  IV.B.3.2. Audits undertaken by outsourced audit service providers  ................................ .. 10  IV.B.3.3. Retention of audit reports  ................................ ................................ .............  10  IV.C. Pharmacovigilance audit policy framework and organisational  structure  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 10  IV.C.1. Marketing authorisation holders in the EU  ................................ .........................  10  IV.C.1.1. Requirement to perform an audit  ................................ ................................ .. 10  IV.C.1.1.1. The qualified person responsible for pharmacovigilance in the EU (QPPV)  ........  10  IV.C.1.2. Competent authorities in Member States and the European Medicines Agency  .... 11  IV.C.1.2.1. Requirement to perform an audit  ................................ ................................  11  IV.C.1.2.2. Common methodology  ................................ ................................ ..............  11  IV.C.1.2.3. The Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC)  ..........................  11  IV.C.2. Requirements for audit reporting in the EU  ................................ ........................  11  IV.C.2.1. Reporting by the marketing authorisation holder  ................................ .............  11  IV.C.2.2. Reporting by competent authorities in Member States and the Agency  ...............  11  IV.C.3. Confidentiality  ................................ ................................ ...............................  12  IV.C.4. Transparency  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 12   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module IV  (Rev 1)   EMA/228028/2012  Rev 1  Page 3/12   IV.A. Introduction  The entry into f orce of the new legislation on p harmacovigilance in July 2012,  established legal   requirements f or competent authorities in the Member States  and the European Medic ines agency  (the  Agency ) and marketing  authorisation holders to perform audits of their p harmacovigilance systems  [DIR Art 101(2), Art 104(2) , REG Art 28f], including risk  based audits of their quality systems [IR Art  13 (1), Art 17 (1) ].  For the purposes of this M odule reference to pharmacovigilance audit(s) and pharmacovigilance audit  activity(ies)  are deemed to include pharmacovigilance system audits and audit(s) of the quality system   for pharmacovigilance activities .    The minimum requirements of the ph armacovigilance systems and the quality system are set out in  the Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 520/2012 (IR) on the performance of  pharmacovigilance activities provided for in Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 and Directive 2001/83/EC.   Risk-based audits of the pharmacovigilance system  should cover all areas listed in Directive  2001/83/EC (DIR) and Regulation (EC) 726/2004 (REG) . The specificities of the risk -based audits of  the quality system [for pharmacovigilance activities] are as described in t he Implementing Measures  [IR Art 8,10,  11,12,13(1) for marketing authorisation holders, and IR  Art 8,14,15,16,17(1) for  the  competent authorities in Member States and the Agency ].  The overall description and objectives of pharmacovigilance systems  and qual ity systems  for  pharmacovigilance activities are referred to in GVP Module I , while the specific pharmacovigilance  processe s are described in each respective Module of GVP.    In this Module, all applicable legal requirements are referenced in the way explai ned in the GVP  Introductory Cover Note  and are usually identifiable by the modal verb “shall”. Guidance for the  implementation of legal requirements is provided using the modal verb “should”.   This Module provides guidance on planning and  conducting the legally required audits , and in respect  of the operation of the EU regulatory network,  the role, context and management of p harmacovigilance  audit activity.  This Module is intended to  facilitate the performance of  pharmacovigilance audits ,  especially to promote harmonisation, and encourage c onsistency and simplification  of the audit  process.  The principles in this Module are aligned with internationally accepted auditing  standard s,  issued by relevant international auditing standardisation organisations1 and su pport a risk -based  approach  to pharmacovigilance audits.   Section IV.B. outlines  the general structures and processes that should  be followed  to identif y the most  appropriate pharmacovigilance  audit engagements  and describes the steps which can be undertake n  by marketing authorisation holders, competent authorities in Member States and the European  Medicines Agency, to plan, conduct and report upon an individual p harmacovigilance  audit  engagemen ts. This Section also provides an outline  of the general quality  system and record  management practices for pharmacovigilance audit processes.   Section IV.C. provides an outline of the operation of the EU network in respect of p harmacovigilance  audits .                                                        1 For m ore details regarding The Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA) see www.theiia.org ; the International Organisation for  Standardisation  (ISO) see www.iso.org ; Information Systems Audit and Control Association (ISACA) see www.isaca.org ;  The International Auditing and Ass urance Standards Board (IAASB)  see www.ifac.org ; The International Organisation of  Supreme Audit Institutions  (INTOSAI) see  www.issai.org .     Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module IV  (Rev 1)   EMA/228028/2012  Rev 1  Page 4/12   IV.A.1 . Terminology   Audit, Audit findings, Audit plan, Audit prog ramme, Audit recommendations,   Upper management : see in GVP Annex I .  Auditee: [entity]  being audited (ISO 19011 (3.7) 2).  Compliance : Conformity and adherence to policies, plans, procedures, laws, regulations, contracts, or  other requirements  (IIA Internati onal Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing2).   Control(s): Any action taken by management and other parties to manage risk and increase the  likelihood that established objectives and goals will be achieved. Management plans, organises, and  directs the performance of sufficient actions to provide reasonable assurance that objectives and goals  will be achieved (IIA International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing2).  Evaluation (of audit activities) :  Profession al auditing bodies promote compliance with standards,  including in quality assurance of their own activities, and codes of conduct, which can be used to  address adequate fulfilment of the organisation’s basic expectations of Internal Audit activity and its   conformity to internationally accepted auditing standards.   Finding(s):  see Audit findings   Head of the organisation : see Upper management   Auditors ’ independence:  The freedom from conditions that threaten objectivity or the appearance of  objectivity. Such threats to objectivity must be managed at the individual auditor, engagement, functional and organisational levels (IIA International Standards for the Professional Practice of  Internal Auditing 2).  Internal Control: Internal control is an integral process that is  effected by an entity’s management and  personnel and is designed to address risk and provide reasonable assurance that in pursuit of the  entity’s mission, the following general objectives are being achieved: executing orderly, ethical, economical, efficient and effective operations, fulfilling accountability obligations, complying with  applicable laws and regulations and safeguarding resources against loss, misuse and damage (for  further information refer to COSO standards).   International Auditing S tandards: issued by International Auditing Standardisation Organisations.   International Auditing Standardisation Organisations : More details can be found at: regarding The  Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA) Standards at http://www.theiia.org/guidance/standards- and- guidance/ippf/standards/full -standards ; the International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO)  standard 19011 Guidelines for Quality and/or E nvironmental Management Systems Auditing  at  http://www.iso.org/iso/home.html ; Information Systems Audit and Control Association  (ISACA)  Standards at http://w ww.isaca.org/Standards; The International Auditing and Assurance Standards  Board (IAASB) S tandards at http://www.ifac.org/auditing -assurance/clarity -center/clarified -standards ;  The International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI)  Standards at  http://www.issai.org/composite -347.htm .  Auditors ’ objectivity : An unbiased mental attitude that allows internal auditors to perform  engagements in such a manner that they have an honest belief in their work product and that no  significant quality compromises are made. Objectivity requires internal auditors not to subordinate  their judgment on audit matters to that of others ( IIA International Standards for the Professional  Practice of Internal Auditing2).                                                   2 See The Institute of Internal Auditors  (IIA), www.theiia.org .   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module IV  (Rev 1)   EMA/228028/2012  Rev 1  Page 5/12   IV.B. Structures and processes   IV.B.1. Pharmacovigilance audit  and its objective   Pharmacovigilance audit activities  should  verify, by examination and evalu ation of objective evidence,  the appropriateness and effectiveness of the implementation and operation  of a pharmacovigilance  system , including  its quality system for pharmacovigilance activities .  In general , an audit is a systematic, disciplined, independent and documented process for obtaining  evidence and evaluating the evidence objectively to determine the extent to which the audit criteria  are fulfilled , contributing to the improvement of risk management, control and governance process es.3  Audit eviden ce consists of records, statements or other information, which are relevant to the audit  criteria and verifiable. Audit criteria  are, f or each audit objective, the standards of performance and  control against which the auditee and its activities will be as sessed . In the context of  pharm acovigilance, audit criteria should  reflect the requirements for the pharmacovigilance system ,  including its quality system for pharmacovigilance activities,  as found in the legislation and guidance .  IV.B.2 . The risk-based ap proach to p harmacovigilance  audits   A risk -based approach is one that uses techniques to determine the areas of risk , where risk is defined  as the probability of an event occurring  that will have an impact on the achievement of objectives ,  taking account of  the severity of its outcome and/or likelihood of non-detection by other methods.  The  risk-based approach to audits focuses on the areas of highest risk to the organisation ’s  pharmacovigilance system , including its quality system for pharmacovigilance activities .  In the context  of pharmacovigilance, the risk to public health is of prime importance.  Risk can be assessed at the  following stages :   • strategic level audit planning resulting in an audit strategy  (long term approach), which should be  endorsed by upper management ;  • tactical level audit planning resulting in an  audit programme,  setting audit objectives , and the   extent and boundaries, often termed as scope , of the audits in that programme ; and   • operational level audit planning resulting in an audit plan for individual audit engagements ,  prioritising audit tasks based on risk  and utilising risk -based sampling and testing approaches , and  reporting of audit findings in line with their  relative risk level  and audit recommendations in line  with the suggested grading system ( see IV.B.2.3.1.).   Risk assessment should be documented appropriately for the strategic, tactic al and operational  planning of p harmacovigilance audit activity in the organisation  (see IV.B.2.1 ., IV.B.2.2 . and IV.B.2.3 .  respectively) .  IV.B. 2.1.Strategic  level audit p lanning   The audit strategy is a h igh level statement of how the a udit activities  will be delivered over a period of  time, longer than the annual programme, usually for a period of 2-5 years . The audit strategy  include s  a list of audits that could reasonably be  performed.  The audit strategy  is used to outline  the areas  highlighted for audit, the audit topics as well as the methods an d assumptions (including e.g. risk  assessment) on which the audit p rogramme is based .                                                    3 Benchmarking, reviews of qualifications , risk assessment questionnaires, surveys or other activities in which evidence of  fulfilment of pharmacovigilance requirements is not independently obtained and evaluated, would not be regar ded as an  audit.    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module IV  (Rev 1)   EMA/228028/2012  Rev 1  Page 6/12   The audit strategy  should cover  the governance, risk management and internal controls of  all parts of  the pharmacovigilance system including:   • all pharmacovigilance processes and tasks;   • the quality system  for pharmacovigilance activities;   • interactions and interfaces wit h other departments , as appropriate;   • pharmacovigilance activities conducted by affiliate d organisations or activities  delegated to another  organisation (e.g. regional reporting centres, MAH affiliates or third parties , such as contract  organisations and ot her vendors ).  This is a non -prioritised, non -exhaustive list of examples of risk factors that could be consider ed for the  purposes of a risk assessment :  • changes to legislation and guidance ;  • major re -organisation  or other re -structuring of the p harmacovigil ance system , mergers,  acquisitions (specifically for marketing authorisation holders , this may lead to a significant increase  in the number of products for which the system is used) ;  • change in key managerial function (s);  • risk to a vailability of adequately trained and experienced pharmacovigilance staff, e.g. due to  significant turn -over of staff,  deficiencies in training processes, re -organisation , increase in  volumes of work;   • significant changes to the system sin ce the time of a previous audit,  e.g. introd uction  of a new  database (s) for p harmacovigilance  activities or of a significant upgr ade to the existing database(s),   changes to processes and activities in order to address new or amended regulatory requirements ;  • first medicinal product on the market  (for a marketing authorisation holder);   • medicinal p roduct (s) on the market with  specific risk minimisation measures or other specific   safety  conditions such as requirements for additional monitoring;   • criticality of the  process, e.g.:  − for competent authorities:  how critical is the area/process to proper functioning of the  pharmacovigilance system and the overall objective of safeguarding public healt h;  − for marketing authorisation holders: how critical is the area/process to proper functioning of  the pharmacovigi lance system. When deciding when to audit an affiliate or third party, the  marketing authorisation holder should consider the nature and criticality of the  pharmacovigilance activities that are being performed by an affiliate or third party on behalf of  the marketing authorisation holder, in addition to considering the other factors included in this  list;  • outcome of previous audits , e.g. has the area/process ever been audited (if not, then this may  need to be prioritised depending on criticality) ; if the ar ea/process has previously been audited,  the audit findings are a factor to consider when deciding when to re -audit the area/process,  including the implementation of a greed actions;   • identified procedural gaps relati ng to specific areas/processes;   • other information relating to compliance  with legislation and guidance, for example :   Guidel ine on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module IV  (Rev 1)   EMA/228028/2012  Rev 1  Page 7/12   − for competent authorities: information from compliance  metrics (as described in the  Commission Implementing Regulation on the Performance of Pharmacovigilance Activities  Provided fo r in Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 and Directive 2001/83/EC ), from complaints,   from external sources , e.g. audits/ assessments of the competent authority conducted by  external bodies ;  − for marketing authorisation holders: information from compliance metrics (a s described in the  Commission Implementing Regulation on the Performance of Pharmacovigilance Activities  Provided for in Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 and Directive 2001/83/EC ), from inspections  (see  GVP Module III ), from complaints , from other external sour ces, e.g. audits ;  • other organisational changes that could negatively impact on the area/process , e.g. if a change  occurs to a support function (such as information technology support) this could negatively impact  upon pharmacovigilance  activities.   IV.B. 2.2. Tactical level audit planning    An audit programme is a set of one or more audits planned for a specific timeframe,  normally for a  year.  It should be prepared in line with the long term audit strategy .  The audit programme should be  approved by upper ma nagement with overall responsibility for operational and governance structure .  The risk-based  audit programme should  be based on an appropriate risk assessment and should focus  on:  • the quality system  for pharmacovigilance activities ;  • critical pharmacovigil ance processes (see e.g. GVP Module I  and IR Art 11 , 15);   • key control systems relied on for pharmacovigilance activities ;  • areas identified as high risk , after controls have been put in place or mitigating action taken.   The risk -based audit programme shoul d also take into account historical areas with insufficient past  audit coverage , and high risk areas identified by  and/or specific requests from  management and/or  persons responsible for pharmacovigilance activities .  The audit programme document ation shoul d include a brief description of the plan for each audit to be  delivered, including an outline of scope  and objectives .  The rationale for the timing, periodicity and scope of the individual audits which form part of the audit  programme should be based on t he documented risk assessment.   However, r isk-based   pharmacovigilance audit(s) should be performed at regular intervals , which are in line with legislative  requirements .  Changes to the audit programme may happen and will require proper documentation.   IV.B.2.3. Operational level audit planning and reporting   IV.B.2.3. 1. Planning and fieldwork   The organisation should ensure that written procedures are in place regarding the planning and conduct of individual audits that will be delivered. Timeframes for all the steps required for the performance of an individual audit should be settled in the relevant audit related procedures, and the  organisation should ensure that audits are conducted in accordance with the written procedures , in line  with this GVP Module .   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module IV  (Rev 1)   EMA/228028/2012  Rev 1  Page 8/12   Individual p harmacovigilance audits should be undertaken in line with the approved risk -based audit  programme (see IV.B.2.2 .). When planning individual audits , the auditor identifies and assesses the  risks relevant to the area under review  and employs the m ost appropriate risk -based sampling and  testing methods , documenting the audit approach in an audit plan.   IV.B.2.3. 2. Reporting   The findings of the auditors should be documented in an audit report and should be  communicate d to  management in a timely manner . The a udit process should include mechanisms for communicat ing the  audit findings to the auditee and receiv ing feedback , and report ing the audit findings to management   and relevant parties , including those responsible for pharmacovigilance systems,  in accordance with  legal requirements and guidance on p harmacovigilance  audits . Audit findings should be reported in line  with their relative risk level and should be graded in order to indicate their relative criticality  to risks  impacting the  pharmacovigilance  system , processes and parts of processes.  The grading system  should be defined in the description of the quality system for  pharmacovigilance , and should take into  consideration the thresholds noted below which would be used in further reporting under th e legislation  as set out in IV.C.2 .:  • critical  is a fundamental  weakness  in one or more pharmacovigilance processes  or practices that  adversely affects the  whole pharmacovigilance system  and/or  the rights, safety or well- being of  patients, or that poses a p otential risk to public health and/ or represents a serious violati on of  applicable regulatory requirements.    • major  is a significant weakness in one or more  pharmacovigilance processes or practices, or a  fundamental weakness in part of one or more pharmaco vigilance processes or practices that is  detrimental to the whole process and/or could potentially adversely affect the rights, safety or  well-being of patients  and/or could potentially pose a risk to public health and/or represents a  violation of applicab le regulatory requirements which is however not considered serious.    • minor is a weakness in the part of one or more p harmacovigilance processes or practices that is  not expected to adversely affect  the whole pharmacovigilance system or process and/or  the rights,  safety or well -being of patients .   Issues that need to be urgently addressed should be communicated in an expedited manner to the  auditee’s  management and the upper management .  IV.B. 2.4. Action s based on audit  outcomes  and follow -up of audits   Actions referenced in this section of the guideline, i.e., immediate action, prompt action, action within a reasonable timeframe, issues that need to be urgently addressed, or communicated in an expedited  manner, are intended to convey timelines that are appropriate, relevant, and in line with the relative risk to the pharmacovigilance system.  Corrective and preventive actions to address critical and major  issues should be prioritised .  The precise timeframe for action(s) related to a given critical finding, for   example, may differ depending on  nature of findings and  the planned action(s).   The management of the organisation is responsible  for ensuring that the organisation has a mechanism  in place to adequately address the issues arising from p harmacovigilance  audits. Actions should include  root cause analysis and impact analysis of identified audit findings and preparation of a corrective and preventive action plan, where appropriate.   Upper  management and those charged with governance, should ensure that effecti ve action is  implemented to address the audit findings.  The implementation of agreed actions should be monitored   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module IV  (Rev 1)   EMA/228028/2012  Rev 1  Page 9/12   in a systematic way, and the progress of implementation should be communicated on a periodic basis  proportionate to the planned actions to upper management.   Evidence of completion of actions should be recorded  in order to document that issues raised during  the audit have been addressed.    Capacity for follow -up audits should be  foreseen  in the audit programme . They should be carried out  as  deemed necessary, in order to verify the completion of agreed actions.  [IR Art 13(2), Art 17(2)]   IV.B. 3. Quality system and record management practices   IV.B. 3.1. Competence of auditors and quality  management of audit   activities   IV.B.3. 1.1. Independence  and objec tivity  of audit work and auditors   The organisation should assign the specific responsibilities for the pharmacovigilance audit activities.  Pharmacovigilance audit activities should be independent.  The organisation’s management should  ensure this  independen ce and objectivity  in a structured manner and  document this.   Auditors  should be free from interference in determining the scope of auditing, performing  pharmacovigilance audits and communicating  audit results .  The main rep orting line should be  to the  upper management with overall responsibility for operational and governance structure that allows the  auditor(s) to fulfil their responsibilities  and to provide independent, objective  audit opinion.  Auditors  can consult with technical experts , personnel involved in pharmacovigilance processes,  and with the  person responsible for pharmacovigilance; however auditors should maintain a n unbiased attitude that  allows them to perform audit work  in such a manner that they have an honest belief in their work  product a nd that no significant quality compromises are made.  Objectivity  requires auditors not to  subordinate their judg ement on audit matters to that of others.   IV.B. 3.1.2. Qualifications, skills and experience of auditors and continuing professional  development   Auditors should  demonstrate  and maintain proficiency in terms of the knowledge, skills and abilities  required to effectively conduct and/or participate in pharmacovigilance audit activities . The p roficiency   of audit team members  will have been gained thro ugh a combination of education, work experience  and training and , as a team, should cover  knowledge, skills and abilities in:   • audit principles, procedures and techniques ;  • applicable laws, regulations and other requirement s relevant to p harmacovigilance ;  • pharmacovigilance  activities, processes and  system(s);   • management system (s);  • organisational system (s).  IV.B.3. 1.3. Evaluation of the quality of audit activities   Evaluation of  audit work can be undertaken by means of ongoing and periodic assessment of all aud it  activities, auditee feedback and self -assessment of audit activities (e.g. quality assurance  of audit  activities, compliance to code of conduct, audit programme, and audit procedures) .   Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module IV  (Rev 1)   EMA/228028/2012  Rev 1  Page 10/12   IV.B.3. 2. Audits undertaken by outsourced audit service providers   Ultimate responsibility for the operation and effectiveness  of the p harmacovigilance system resides  within the organisation ( i.e. within the Agency , competent authority  or marketing authorisation  holder ). Where the organisation decides to use an outsourced audit s ervice provider to implement the  pharmacovigilance audit requirements on the basis of this GVP M odule and perform pharmacovigilance  audits :  • the requirements and preparation of the audit risk assessment, the audit strategy and audit  programme and individual engagements should be specified to the outsourced service providers,  by the organisation, in writing ;  • the scope, objectives and procedural requirements for the audit should be specified to the  outsourced  service provider, by  the organisation, in wr iting;   • the organisation should obtain and document assurance of the independence and objectivity of  outsou rced service providers;   • the outsourced audit service provider should also follow th e relevant parts of this GVP Module.   IV.B.3. 3. Retention of audit r eports   Retention of the audit report and evidence of completion of action needs to be in line with the  requirements stipulated in  GVP Module I .  IV.C. Pharmacovig ilance audit policy framework and  organisational structure    IV.C.1. Marketing authorisation hol ders in the EU   IV.C.1.1. Requirement to perform an audit   The marketing authorisation holder in the EU is required to perform regular risk-based  audit(s) of their  pharmacovigilance syste m [DIR Art 104(2)], including audit(s) of its quality system to ensure that the  quality system complies with the quality system requirements [ IR Art 8,10,11,12,13(1)].  The dates  and results of audits and follow -up audits shall be documented [ IR Art 13(2)]   See IV.C.2. for further details of the requirements for audit reportin g by the marketing authorisation  holder.   IV.C.1.1. 1. The qu alified person responsible for p harmacovigilance in the EU (QPPV)   The responsibilities of the QPPV in respect of audit are provided in GVP Module I .  Furthermore, the  QPPV should receive pharmacovi gilance audit reports, and provide information  to the auditors  relevant  to the risk assessment, including knowledge of status of corrective and preventive actions.    The QPPV should be notified of any audit findings relevant to the pharmacovigilance system  in the EU,  irrespective of where the audit was conducted.    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module IV  (Rev 1)   EMA/228028/2012  Rev 1  Page 11/12   IV.C.1.2. Competent authorities in Member States and the E uropean  Medicines Agency   IV.C.1. 2.1. Requirement to perform an audit   The Agency shall perform regular independent audits of its p harmacovig ilance tasks [REG Art 28f]  and  competent authorities in Member States shall  perform a regular audit of their p harmacovigilance  system  [DIR Art 101(2)].    Included in their obligation to perform audits of their pharmacovigilance  system/tasks, competent auth orities in the Member States and the Agency shall perform risk -based  audits of the quality system as well , at regular intervals according to a common methodology to ensure  that the quality system complies with the requirements [ IR Art 8,14,15,16,17(1)] .   The dates and  results of audits and follow -up audits shall be documented [ IR Art 17(2)].  IV.C.1.2. 2. Common methodology   In order to have a useful audit system, all audits at the competent authorities in the Member States  and the European Medicines Agency s hould have a common g round in terms of methodology. This  should ensure  harmonised planning, implementation and reporting by every competent authority in  Member States and at the Agency .  IV.C.1.2.3 . The Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC)   The mandate of the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) shall cover all aspects of  the risk management of the use of medicinal products for human use , having due regard to  the design  and evaluation of  pharmacovigilance audit s [REG Art 61a(6)].   IV.C.2. Requirements  for audit reporting in the EU   IV.C.2 .1. Reporting by the marketing authorisation holder   The marketing authoris ation holder shall place a note concerning critical and major audit findings of  any audit relating to the pharmacovigilance s ystem i n the p harmacovigilance system master file  (PSMF)  (see GVP Module II ). Based on the audit findings,  the marketing authorisation holder shall   ensure that an appropriate plan  detailing corrective and preventative action  is prepared and  implemented. On ce the corrective and preventive actions  have been fully implemented, the note may  be removed [DIR Art 104(2) , IR Art 13(2) ]. Objective evidence is required in order that any note of  audit findings can be removed from the pharmacovigilance system master fi le (see GVP Module II).   The marketing authorisation h olders should ensure that  a list of all scheduled and completed audits is  kept in the annex to the pharmacovigilance system master file (IR Art 3(5))  and that they comply with   reporting commitments in line with the legislation, GVP guidance and their internal reporting policies.    The dates and results of audits and follow -up audits shall be documented [ IR Art 13(2)].  IV.C. 2.2. Reporting by competent authorities in Member States and the  Agency   Competent a uthorities  in Member States, and the Agency  should ensure that  they comply with   reporting commitments in line with  the legislation, GVP guidance and  their internal reporting policies.    Competent authorities in Member States shall  report the results  [of the ir pharmacovigilance system  audits] to the Commission on 21 September 2013 at the latest an d then every 2 years thereafter [DIR  Art 101(2)].    Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP)  – Module IV  (Rev 1)   EMA/228028/2012  Rev 1  Page 12/12   The Agency shall report the results  [of its pharmacovigilance system audits] to its Manag ement Board  on a 2 -yearly basis [REG Art 28f].   The reports to the European Commission  will follow an agreed format.   IV.C.3. Confidentiality   Documents and information collected by the internal auditor should  be treated with appropriate  confidentiality and discretion , and also respect  Directive 95/46/EC [Regulation (EC) No . 45/2001 for  Community institutions and bodies]  and national legislation  on the protection of individuals with regard  to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data.   IV.C. 4. Transparency   The European Commission shall make public a report on the performance of pharmacovigilance tasks  by the Agency on 2 January 2014 at the latest and subsequ ently every 3 years thereafter [REG Art 29]   and on the performance of pharmacovigilance tasks by the c ompetent authorities in Member States on  21 July 2015 at the latest and then every 3 years thereafter  [DIR Art 108(b)].    


 
https://clinchoice.com/pharmacovigilance-literature-monitoring-best-practices/
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/other/monitoring-medical-literature-entry-relevant-information-eudravigilance-database-european-medicines_en.pdf
    Official address   Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands   An agency of the European Union     Address for visits and deliveries   Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how -to-find-us   Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone  +31 (0)88 781 6000       © European Medicines Agency, 2024. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.     1 April 2024   EMA/517840/2015  Rev 5*  Data Analytics and Methods Taskforce   Monitoring of medical literature and the entry of relevant  information into the EudraVigilance database by the  European Medicines Agency   EMBASE Search Strategies for Substance Groups 1 -309, and Herbal  Substance Groups 1 -100                                *Note: Revision 5 includes the following :  • Updating hyperlinks  in the introduction and general principles   • Removal of search strategy version 3.0 for chemical substance groups 25, 39, 71, 76, 201, 297 and 301 – 309  • Correction of the Linum (group 3 33) substance search string to remove the following erroneous terms  which actually refer to  Botulinum toxin : ‘ANTYTOKSYNA BOTULINOWA ABE’ , ‘AZZALURE’:tn , ‘BOCOUTURE’:tn , ‘BOTOX’:tn , ‘BOTULINUM TOXIN  TYPE A IPSEN LTD.’:tn , ‘BOTULISMUS -ANTITOXIN BEHRING’:tn , ‘DYSLOR’:tn, ‘DYSPORT’:tn , ‘MYOBLOC’:tn,  ‘NEUROBLOC’:tn , ‘VISTABEL’:tn , ‘VISTABEX’:tn , ‘XEOMIN’:tn       European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 2/368   Table of Contents   Table of Contents  ................................ ................................ ........................  2  I. Introduction  ................................ ................................ .........................  12  II. General Principles  ................................ ................................ ...............  12  III.  Search parameters for chemical substance groups and variants  ....... 15  1. Paracetamol  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 15  2. Hydrochlorothiazide  ................................ ................................ .............................  21  3. Ibuprofen  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...........  29  4. Omeprazole  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  32  5. Amlodipine  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  34  6. Simvastatin  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  36  7. Diclofenac  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........  38  8. Ciprofloxacin  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 40  9. Pantoprazole  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 41  10. Lidocaine  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........  42  11. Sodium Chloride  ................................ ................................ ................................  45  12. Fluconazole  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 51  13. Montelukast  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 52  14. Atorvastatin  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 53  15. Acetylsalicylic Acid  ................................ ................................ .............................  55  16. Amoxicillin  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  57  17. Donepezil  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  59  18. Ethinylestradiol  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 60  19. Losartan ................................ ................................ ................................ ...........  64  20. Olanzapine  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 65  21. Clopidogrel  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 66  22. Risperidone  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 67  23. Tamsulosin  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 68  24. Aciclovir  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...........  69  25. Azithromycin  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 70  26. Levofloxacin  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 71  27. Finasteride  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 72  28. Alendronic acid  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 73  29. Valsartan  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  74  30. Clarithromycin  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 75  31. Venlafaxine  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 76  32. Cetirizine  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........  77  33. Sertraline  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  78  34. Ramipril  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...........  79  35. Calcium Carbonate  ................................ ................................ ............................  80  36. Sildenafil  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........  82  37. Ascorbic Acid  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 83  38. Levetiracetam  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 85     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 3/368   39. Hydrocortisone ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 85  40. Terbinafine  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 87  41. Anastrozole  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 88  42. Citalopram  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 89  43. Ranitidine  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  90  44. Metformin  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  91  45. Lansoprazole  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 92  46. Fluoxetine  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  93  47. Tramadol  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  94  48. Letrozole  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........  95  49. Escitalopram  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 96  50. Esomeprazole  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 97  51. Bicalutamide  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 98  52. Gabapentin  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 99  53. Fentanyl  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...........  99  54. Quetiapine  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 100   55. Cefuroxime  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 101   56. Paroxetine  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 102   57. Enalapril ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  103   58. Indapamide  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 104   59. Ondansetron  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 106   60. Candesartan  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 107   61. Risedronic Acid  ................................ ................................ ...............................  107   62. Pravastatin  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 108   63. Glimepiride  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 109   64. Lisinopril  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  110   65. Carvedilol  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 111   66. Timolol ................................ ................................ ................................ ...........  112   67. Latanoprost  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 113   68. Salicylic Acid  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 114   69. Metronidazole  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 115   70. Budesonide  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 116   71. Dexamethasone  ................................ ................................ ..............................  117   72. Topiramate  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 119   73. Bisoprolol  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 119   74. Atenolol  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  120   75. Furosemide  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 121   76. Prednisolone  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 122   77. Irbesartan  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 123   78. Ambroxol  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 124   79. Lamotrigine  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 125   80. Mirtazapine  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 126   81. Ceftriaxone  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 127   82. Acetylcysteine  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 128   83. Meloxicam  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 129      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 4/368   84. Ropinirole  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 130   85. Memantine  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 130   86. Loratidine  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 131   87. Zoledronic Acid  ................................ ................................ ...............................  132   88. Zolpidem  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  133   89. Nebivolol  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  133   90. Chlorhexidine ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 134   91. Gemcitabine  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 136   92. Ibandronic Acid  ................................ ................................ ...............................  136   93. Clindamycin  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 137   94. Betamethasone  ................................ ................................ ...............................  138   95. Salbutamol  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 139   96. Naproxen  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 140   97. Desloratadine  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 141   98. Exemestane  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 142   99. Ketoprofen  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 143   100.  Rivastigmine  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 144   101.  Glyceryl Trinitrate  ................................ ................................ ..........................  145   102.  Piperacillin  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 146   103.  Doxazosin  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 147   104.  Estradiol  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 148   105.  Metoprolol  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 149   106.  Morphine  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 150   107.  Isosorbide  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 151   108.  Loperamide  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 152   109.  Telmisartan  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 153   110.  Glucose  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  154   111.  Rabeprazole  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 155   112.  Oxaliplatin  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 156   113.  Colecalciferol  ................................ ................................ ................................  157   114.  Gliclazide  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 158   115.  Lactulose  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 159   116.  Pramipexole  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 159   117.  Alprazolam  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 160   118.  Diltiazem  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 161   119.  Alfuzosin  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 162   120.  Fluticasone Propionate  ................................ ................................ ...................  162   121.  Formoterol  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 164   122.  Levocitirizine  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 164   123.  Betahistine  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 165   124.  Dextromethorphan  ................................ ................................ ........................  166   125.  Irinotecan  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 167   126.  Ceftazidime  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 168   127.  Lercanidipine  ................................ ................................ ................................  169   128.  Paclitaxel  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 169      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 5/368   129.  Xylometazoline  ................................ ................................ ..............................  170   130.  Epinephrine  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 171   131.  Piroxicam  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 173   132.  Potassium Chloride  ................................ ................................ ........................  173   133.  Sumatriptan  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 175   134.  Perindopril  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 175   135.  Doxycycline  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 176   136.  Glucosamine  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 177   137.  Itraconazole  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 178   138.  Captopril  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 179   139.  Codeine  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  179   140.  Fluvastatin  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 180   141.  Meropenem  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 181   142.  Docetaxel  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 182   143.  Allopurinol  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 182   144.  Domperidone  ................................ ................................ ................................  183   145.  Mometasone  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 184   146.  Mycophenolic Acid  ................................ ................................ .........................  184   147.  Amiodarone  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 185   148.  Cyanocobalamin  ................................ ................................ ............................  186   149.  Epirubicin  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 187   150.  Galantamine  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 187   151.  Valaciclovir  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 188   152.  Celecoxib  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 188   153.  Nifedipine  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 189   154.  Vancomycin  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 190   155.  Zolmitriptan  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 190   156.  Moxifloxacin  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 191   157.  Diazepam  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 191   158.  Erythromycin  ................................ ................................ ................................  192   159.  Folinic Acid  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 193   160.  Glycerol ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  194   161.  Carbidopa  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 195   162.  Cromoglicic Acid  ................................ ................................ ............................  196   163.  Heparin  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  197   164.  Oxygen  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  198   165.  Zinc Oxide  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 199   166.  Ketoconazole  ................................ ................................ ................................  200   167.  Ofloxacin  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 200   168.  Folic Acid  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 201   169.  Progesterone  ................................ ................................ ................................  203   170.  Sodium Hydrogen Carbonate  ................................ ................................ ..........  204   171.  Triamcinolone  ................................ ................................ ...............................  205   172.  Nimesulide ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 206   173.  Cefotaxime  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 207      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 6/368   174.  Gentamicin  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 207   175.  Lorazepam ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 208   176.  Granisetron  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 209   177.  Pioglitazone  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 209   178.  Amisulpride  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 210   179.  Clotrimazole  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 210   180.  Remifentanil  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 211   181.  Spironolactone  ................................ ................................ ..............................  212   182.  Tacrolimus  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 213   183.  Dorzolamide  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 214   184.  Rosuvastatin  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 214   185.  Midazolam  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 215   186.  Verapamil  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 215   187.  Bromazepam  ................................ ................................ ................................  216   188.  Bromhexine  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 217   189.  Carbocisteine  ................................ ................................ ................................  217   190.  Isotretinoin  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 219   191.  Ticlopidine  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 219   192.  Tobramycin ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 220   193.  Metamizole  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 221   194.  Rizatriptan  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 221   195.  Valproic Acid  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 222   196.  Capecitabine  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 223   197.  Desogestrel  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 223   198.  Metoclopramide  ................................ ................................ .............................  224   199.  Repaglinide  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 225   200.  Tolterodine  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 225   201.  Ribavirin  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 226   202.  Mesalazine  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 226   203.  Oxycodone  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 227   204.  Beclometasone  ................................ ................................ ..............................  228   205.  Carbamazepine  ................................ ................................ .............................  228   206.  Eplerenone  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 229   207.  Fenofibrate  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 230   208.  Somatropin  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 230   209.  Trimetazidina  ................................ ................................ ................................  231   210.  Bisacodyl  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 232   211.  Buprenorphine  ................................ ................................ ..............................  232   212.  Oxybutynin  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 233   213.  Tamoxifen  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 234   214.  Zopiclone  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 234   215.  Brimonidine  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 235   216.  Cisatracurium Besilate ................................ ................................ ....................  236   217.  Mikonazol  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 236   218.  Roxithromycin  ................................ ................................ ...............................  237      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 7/368   219.  Simeticone  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 237   220.  Cilastatin  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 238   221.  Indometacin  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 239   222.  Piracetam  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 239   223.  Theophylline  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 240   224.  Sotalol  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  241   225.  Felodipine  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 241   226.  Norfloxacin  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 242   227.  Atropine  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 243   228.  Bupivacaine  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 244   229.  Carboplatin  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 244   230.  Doxorubicin  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 245   231.  Famotidine  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 245   232.  Methotrexate  ................................ ................................ ................................  246   233.  Quinapril  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 247   234.  Ropivacaine Hydrochloride  ................................ ................................ ..............  247   235.  Benazalkonium  ................................ ................................ ..............................  248   236.  Flecainide  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 249   237.  Povidone, Iodinated  ................................ ................................ .......................  249   238.  Testosterone  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 250   239.  Cefaclor  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 251   240.  Nicotine  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  251   241.  Oxymetazoline  ................................ ................................ ..............................  252   242.  Cefixime  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 252   243.  Ciclopirox  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 253   244.  Minoxidil  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 254   245.  Pentoxifylline  ................................ ................................ ................................  254   246.  Tocopherol ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 255   247.  Ampicillin  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 256   248.  Lormetazepam  ................................ ................................ ..............................  256   249.  Alprostadil  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 257   250.  Amorolfine  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 257   251.  Levothyroxine  ................................ ................................ ...............................  258   252.  Moxonidine  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 259   253.  Nitrous Oxide  ................................ ................................ ................................  259   254.  Linezolid  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 260   255.  Lovastatin  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 261   256.  Sulpiride  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 261   257.  Tetracycline  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 262   258.  Naratriptan  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 263   259.  Phenylephrine  ................................ ................................ ...............................  263   260.  Acarbose  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 264   261.  Amitriptyline  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 264   262.  Retinol Acetate  ................................ ................................ ..............................  265   263.  Terazosin  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 266      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 8/368   264.  Ziprasidone ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 267   265.  Clozapine  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 267   266.  Flumazenil  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 268   267.  Glibenclamide  ................................ ................................ ...............................  268   268.  Levonorgestrel  ................................ ................................ ..............................  269   269.  Magnesium Sulfate  ................................ ................................ ........................  270   270.  Octreotide  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 270   271.  Propofol  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 271   272.  Vinorelbine  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 271   273.  Etoposide  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 272   274.  Oxcarbazepine  ................................ ................................ ..............................  273   275.  Propanolol Hydrochloride  ................................ ................................ ................  273   276.  Alfaclcidol  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 274   277.  Flutamide  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 275   278.  Fosmycin  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 275   279.  Leuprorelin  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 276   280.  Azathioprine  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 276   281.  Co-Trimoxazole  ................................ ................................ .............................  277   282.  Torasemide  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 278   283.  Chloramphenicol  ................................ ................................ ............................  278   284.  Clobatesol  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 279   285.  Mannitol  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 280   286.  Methylphenidate Hydrochloride  ................................ ................................ ....... 280   287.  Paricalcitol  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 281   288.  Aceclofenac  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 281   289.  Cisplatin  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 282   290.  Diosmin  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  283   291.  Amikacin  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 283   292.  Cefazolin  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 284   293.  Haloperidol  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 284   294.  Nitrazepam  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 285   295.  Ursodeoxycholic acid  ................................ ................................ ......................  286   296.  Salcatonin  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 286   297.  Ciclosporin  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 287   298.  Fexofenadine  ................................ ................................ ................................  288   299.  5-Fluorouracil ................................ ................................ ................................  288   300.  Fosinopril  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 289   301.  Emtricitabine, Tenofovir  ................................ ................................ .................  289   302.  Prednisone ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 290   303.  Chloroquine  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 291   304.  Darunavir  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 292   305.  Ritonavir  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 292   306.  Ivermectin  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 293   307.  Nitric oxide  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 293   308.  Filgrastim  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 294      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 9/368   309.  Oseltamivir  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 294   IV. Search parameters for herbal substance groups and variants  ..........  295   310.  Valeriana  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 295   311.  Hypericum  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 296   312.  Eucalyptus  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 298   313.  Mentha  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  299   314.  Plantago  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 301   315.  Echinacea  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 302   316.  Senna  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........  304   317.  Thymus  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  305   318.  Crategus  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 306   319.  Serenoa  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 307   320.  Silybum  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  308   321.  Soya ................................ ................................ ................................ ............  309   322.  Arnica  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........  310   323.  Ginkgo  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  312   324.  Matricaria  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 313   325.  Cimicfuga  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 314   326.  Aesculus  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 315   327.  Ipecacuanha  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 316   328.  Urtica  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...........  317   329.  Ginseng  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  318   330.  Hedera  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  320   331.  Cynara  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  321   332.  Atropa  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........  321   333.  Linum  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........  322   334.  Betula  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........  323   335.  Capsicum  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 324   336.  Hamamelis  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 324   337.  Harpagophytum  ................................ ................................ ............................  325   338.  Calendula  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 326   339.  Salvia  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........  326   340.  Avena  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........  327   341.  Passiflora  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 328   342.  Artemisia  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 328   343.  Melissa  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  329   344.  Vitex ................................ ................................ ................................ ............  330   345.  Equisteum  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 330   346.  Ricinus  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  331   347.  Phleum ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  332   348.  Sambucus  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 333   349.  Taraxacum  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 334   350.  Viscum  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  335   351.  Citrus  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...........  335   352.  Corylus  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  336      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 10/368   353.  Gentiana  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 337   354.  Solanum  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 338   355.  Turpentine  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 338   356.  Alternaria  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 339   357.  Chelidonium  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 339   358.  Salix ................................ ................................ ................................ ............  340   359.  Symphytum  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 340   360.  Ambrosia  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 341   361.  Arctostaphylos  ................................ ................................ ..............................  341   362.  Cassia  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........  342   363.  Quercus  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 342   364.  Tilia ................................ ................................ ................................ .............  343   365.  Fagus  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...........  343   366.  Juglans  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  344   367.  Niaouli  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  344   368.  Parietaria  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 345   369.  Dactylis  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  345   370.  Solidaginis  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 346   371.  Vaccinium  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 346   372.  Vitis ................................ ................................ ................................ .............  347   373.  Camellia  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 347   374.  Cascara  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  348   375.  Fraxinus  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 348   376.  Hordeum  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 349   377.  Rhamnus  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 349   378.  Syzygium  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 350   379.  Veratrum  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 350   380.  Verbascum  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 351   381.  Aloe ................................ ................................ ................................ .............  351   382.  Apium  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........  352   383.  Curcuma  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 352   384.  Pelagonium  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 353   385.  Strophantus  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 353   386.  Anacardium  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 354   387.  Centella ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  354   388.  Erysimum  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 355   389.  Prunus  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  355   390.  Ulmus  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........  356   391.  Viola ................................ ................................ ................................ ............  356   392.  Chenopodium  ................................ ................................ ................................  357   393.  Citronella  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...... 357   394.  Daucus  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  358   395.  Garlic  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...........  358   396.  Ginger  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........  358   397.  Origanum  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 359      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 11/368   398.  Rhubarb  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 359   399.  Althaea  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  360   400.  Anise  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...........  360   401.  Cucurbita  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 361   402.  Orthosiphon  ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 361   403.  Pygeum  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  362   404.  Justicia  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  362   405.  Lavandula  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..... 363   406.  Oenothera  ................................ ................................ ................................ .... 363   407.  Ruscus  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  364   408.  Angelica  ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 364   409.  Illicium  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  365   V. Safety string versions  ................................ ................................ ........  366           European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 12/368   I. Introduction   The operation of the full Medical Literature Monitoring (MLM)  service started  on 1 September  2015 and  was extended on 1 June 2020  and cover s active chemical substance groups  1-309, and herbal  substance groups 1 -100. The MLM Service was further extended on 1 April 2024 to include searching in  MEDLINE. The substance groups are published at the following link “Medical literature monitoring:  substance and herbal substance groups ” on the dedicated MLM webpage .  This document outlines the search strategy for each of the substance groups as part of the Agency’s  activities set out in Article 27 of Regulation (EC) 726/2014  used to undertake the daily se arch in  EMBASE . Please note that ‘daily’ refers to calendar days with the exception of weekends (Saturday and  Sunday) .   The search strategy was created in EMBASE and uses the syntax and terminology of the EMBASE  search engine.     II. General Principles   • The search for each substance group has been prepared to be exhaustive in line with the  requirements of the Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP) Module VI – Collection,  management and submission of reports of suspected adverse reactions to medicinal products (Rev  2), hereafter referred to as ‘ GVP module VI ’, chapter VI.App2.3.2 .  • The most comprehensive search strategy targeted to achieve precise results as regards the areas  to be monitored have been defined for each substance group and for the literature reference  databases as outlined in the  description of the journal/reference databases used  as published at  the dedicated MLM webpage.   • The search parameters aim to identify  and retrieve :  − suspected adverse reactions originating from spontaneous reports and solicited reports in  humans (see GVP module VI, chapter VI.B.1.1. and VI.B.1.2.) and   − special situations such as lack of therapeutic efficacy, use of a medicinal product during  pregnancy and breastfeeding, use of a medicinal product in a paediatric or elderly population,  reports of off -label use, misuse, abuse, overdose, medication error as well as occupational  exposure associated with suspected adverse reactions.   The exact scope is  defined in the “Detailed guide regarding the monitoring of medical literature  and the entry of relevant information into the EudraVigilance database by the European  Medicines Agency ” (hereafter referred to as “Detailed Guide”) .  • Each search strategy  is routinely reviewed and updated where necessary to improve search  precision or to align with any updates to the thesaurus used for indexing in the journal/reference  databses used.   − The first update to the safety filter was made on 01 October 2015. The previous  version is  contained in Chapter V: Search  string versions ,  − The second update was made on 01 June 2020. It only affect ed substance groups 25, 39, 71,  76, 201 , 297 and 301 – 309,     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 13/368   − The third update was made on 01 April 2021. It only affected substance groups 25, 39, 71, 76,  201, 297 and 301 – 309,  − The fourth update was made on 20 May 2022, correcting the substances in group 310,   − The fifth update was made on 1 April 2024 , restoring the search strategy from version 3.0 to  2.0 for substance groups 25, 39, 71, 76, 201 , 297 and 301 – 309 and also correcting the  substance and brand name terms for substance group 333 .  • Each search strategy is applied to the journal/reference databases  according to the predefined  periodicity  as outlined in the Detailed Guide .  • Each search is conducted with a  “human ” filter and is limited to articles published in the current or  previous year .  − Searching is performed without enabling language filters to retrieve all articles that meet the  search criteria.   • The search strategy for each subs tance group is constituted of multiple componen ts such as the   International Nonproprietary Name (INN)  as well as alternative names (variants) for the  substances based on the information available in the Extended EudraVigilance Medicinal Product  Dictionary (xEV MPD).   Alternative names include medicinal product names (brand names) based on the information  submitted by marketing authorisation holders in accordance with Article 57(2), second  subparagraph of Regulation (EC) 726/2004 as well as variants for medicinal product names that  have been reported in ICSRs to EudraVigilance.   • The additional core search strategy  (version 2.0),  applied  to all substance groups, in order to  increase the precision of the search in each active substance group in Boolean format is as follows:   AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti  OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR  'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR  'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR  'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR  fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR  carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational  exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug  tolerance'/exp/mj OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance - related disorders'/exp OR 'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug  resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   Search string glossary:   • *: wildcard – anything following that string   • ab: abstract   • de: index term   • lim: limiter   • lnk: subheading      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 14/368   • mj: major focus of article   • ti: article title   • The term ‘adverse drug reaction’ is linked to the term adverse event in the literature reference  database thesaurus. Other terms linked to ADR and therefore not called o ut as specific search  terms include absence of side effects, antibiotic associated diarrhoea, application site reaction +,  chemotherapy induced emesis, contrast induced nephropathy, corticosteroid induced myopathy,  corticosteroid induced osteoporosis, drug eruption +, drug fatality, drug fever, drug  hypersensitivity +, drug induced disease, drug induced headache, flu like syndrome, hand foo t  syndrome, heparin induced thro mbocytopenia, HIV associated lipodystrophy, Injection site reaction  +, instillation site reaction, neuroleptic induced deficit syndrome, neuroleptic malignant syndrome,  opioid induced emesis, paradoxical drug reaction, procedural site reaction, propofol infusion  syndrome, retinoic acid syndrome, serotonin syndrome, tumor flare, tumor lysis syndrome,  unspecified side effect, vaccination reaction. (+ = exploded terms used as well).         European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 15/368   III. Search parameters for chemical substance groups and  variants   1. Paracetamol   ‘PARACETAMOL’ OR ‘ACETAMINOPHEN’ OR ‘PARACETAMOLA’ OR ‘PARACETAMOLU’ OR  ‘PARACETAMOLS’ OR ‘PARACETAMOLA’ OR ‘PARACETAMOLIS’ OR ‘PARACETAMOLUM’ OR  ‘ACETAMINOFENE’ OR ‘PARACETAMOLO’ OR ‘PARASETAMÓLI’ OR ‘PARACETAMOLT’ OR  ‘PARAICÉITAMÓL’ OR ‘PARACÉTAMOL’ OR ‘PARASETAMOLI’ OR ‘PARASETAMOLIA’ OR  ‘PARATSETAMOOLI’ OR ‘PARATSETAMOOL’ OR ‘PARACETAMOLUM’ OR ‘24 HOUR COLD & FLU  RELIEF’:tn OR ‘ABALON’:tn OR ‘ACECLOFEN’:tn OR ‘ACENOL’:tn OR ‘ACETAMOL’:tn OR ‘ACIFEIN’:tn OR  ‘ACTIFEDSIGN’:tn OR ‘ACTIGRIP’:tn OR ‘ACTRON’:tn OR ‘ACUTRAL’:tn OR ‘ADALGUR’:tn OR  ‘ADOLEF’:tn OR ‘ADOLOMED’:tn OR ‘ADOLORIN’:tn OR ‘ADOREA’:tn OR ‘AFEBRYL’:tn OR ‘AJUTA COLD  & FLU LEMON FLAVOUR’:tn OR ‘AJUTA MAX STRENGTH COLD & FLU LEMON FLAVOUR’:tn OR ‘ALBERT  HEIJN PARACETAMOL’:tn OR ‘ALBERT HEIJN PARACETAMOLCOFFEINE’:tn OR ‘ALERGICAL  EXPECTORANTE’:tn OR ‘ALGASYN’:tn OR ‘ALGICALM’:tn OR ‘ALGIDOL’:tn OR ‘ALGINE’:tn OR  ‘ALGISEDAL’:tn OR ‘ALGOCALM’:tn OR ‘ALGOCID’:tn OR ‘ALGOCIT’:tn OR ‘ALGODOL’:tn OR  ‘ALGOFEN’:tn OR ‘ALGON’:tn OR ‘ALGOPARA’:tn OR ‘ALGOPIRIN’:tn OR ‘ALGOPIRINA’:tn OR  ‘ALGOSTASE’:tn OR ‘ALGOTRA’:tn OR ‘ALGOTROPYL’:tn OR ‘ALKASELTZER XS’:tn OR ‘ALMIGRIPE’:tn  OR ‘ALVEDON’:tn OR ‘ALVEDON DOS’:tn OR ‘ALVEDON FORTE’:tn OR ‘ALVEDON NOVUM’:tn OR  ‘ALVEDON SUPPOSITORIES’:tn OR ‘ANADIN’:tn OR ‘ANADIN EXTRA’:tn OR ‘ANALGILASA’:tn OR  ‘ANALGIPLUS’:tn OR ‘ANALGISER’:tn OR ‘ANTICATARRAL’:tn OR ‘ANTIDOL’:tn OR ‘ANTIGRIPAL’:tn OR  ‘ANTIGRIPPINE’:tn OR ‘ANTINEVRALGIC’:tn OR ‘ANTIREUMINA’:tn OR ‘APAMOL’:tn OR ‘APAP’:tn OR  ‘APAP, VAIKAMS’:tn OR ‘APC’:tn OR ‘APIREDOL’:tn OR ‘APIRETAL’:tn OR  ‘APOTRAMADOLPARACETAMOL’:tn OR ‘APOGRIP’:tn OR ‘APOPATRAM’:tn OR ‘APOTEL’:tn OR ‘ARAX’:tn  OR ‘ARFEN’:tn OR ‘ASCOPHEN P’:tn OR ‘ASCORBIC ACIDPARACETAMOL ’:tn OR ‘ASKOFENAS’:tn OR  ‘ASPACO’:tn OR ‘ASPIRINPARACETAMOLCAFFEINE WOCKHARDT UK LTD’:tn OR ‘ATARALGIN’:tn OR  ‘ATRALIDON’:tn OR ‘AUROGRIP’:tn OR ‘AZUR’:tn OR ‘BABY RINOLO’:tn OR ‘BANIMAX’:tn OR  ‘BEECHAMS’:tn OR ‘BEECHAMS COLD & FLU’:tn OR ‘BEECHAMS COLD RELIEF’:tn OR ‘BEECHAMS  FLUPLUS’:tn OR ‘BEECHAMS HOT LEMON’:tn OR ‘BEECHAMS MAX STRENGTH ALL IN ONE’:tn OR  ‘BEECHAMS ULTRA ALL IN ONE’:tn OR ‘BEECHAMS WARMERS LEMON’:tn OR ‘BENURON’:tn OR ‘BENE  DIREKT’:tn OR ‘BIOFLU’:tn OR ‘BISOLGRIP’:tn OR ‘BLACKCURRANT COLDREX’:tn OR ‘BOLOPAX’:tn OR  ‘BOOTS CAPSULES’:tn OR ‘BOOTS PARACETAMOL  CAPLETS’:tn OR ‘BOXAZIN’:tn OR ‘BRILIVO’:tn OR  ‘BUSCAPINA PLUS’:tn OR ‘BUSCOPAN COMPOSITUM’:tn OR ‘BUSCOPAN PLUS’:tn OR ‘C1000  KINDERPARACETAMOL’:tn OR ‘C1000 PARACETAMOL COFFEINE’:tn OR ‘CAFCOLD’:tn OR  ‘CAFFEINEPARACETAMOL PCH’:tn OR ‘CAFFETIN’:tn OR ‘CALEFRED’:tn OR ‘CALMAGRIP’:tn OR  ‘CALPOL’:tn OR ‘CARE INFANT PARACETAMOL’:tn OR ‘CEBIOPIRINA’:tn OR ‘CEFALGIN’:tn OR  ‘CEFALINE HAUTH’:tn OR ‘CERUGRIP’:tn OR ‘CETEBE ANTIGRIPPAL ERKÄLTUNGSTRUNK FORTE’:tn OR  ‘CETEBE DUOEFFEKT ERKÄLTUNGSTRUNK’:tn OR ‘CETEBE DUOEFFEKT MENTHOLFRISCH’:tn OR  ‘CHILDRENS SOLUBLE PARACETAMOL TABLETS’:tn OR ‘CHOLIGRIP’:tn OR ‘CIBALGINA EMICRANIA  CEFALEA’:tn OR ‘CINFATÓS’:tn OR ‘CITODON’:tn OR ‘CITRAMON’:tn OR ‘CITRAMONAS’:tn OR  ‘CITRAMONS FORTE’:tn OR ‘CITROSAN’:tn OR ‘CLARADOL’:tn OR ‘CLARADOL CAFEINE’:tn OR ‘CLEAR  DISSOLVING PAIN RELIEF PLUS TABLETS’:tn OR ‘CLEAR DISSOLVING PAIN RELIEF TABLETS’:tn OR  ‘CLOCINOL’:tn OR ‘CO CODAMOL’:tn OR ‘COCODAMOL’:tn OR ‘CODYDRAMOL’:tn OR  ‘COEFFERALGAN’:tn OR ‘CODEFFERALGAN’:tn OR ‘CODALVONIL’:tn OR ‘CODAMIN P’:tn OR  ‘CODAMOL’:tn OR ‘CODANOL’:tn OR ‘CODAXOL’:tn OR ‘CODEINE PHOSPHATEPARACETAMOL’:tn OR  ‘CODIPAR’:tn OR ‘CODOFORME’:tn OR ‘CODOLIPRANE’:tn OR ‘CODYDRAMOL’:tn OR ‘COLD & FLU  DAY’:tn OR ‘COLD & FLU LEMON’:tn OR ‘COLD & FLU NIGHT’:tn OR ‘COLD AND FLU MAX STRENGTH’:tn     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 16/368   OR ‘COLD RELIEF’:tn OR ‘COLD& FLU LEMON FLAVOUR’:tn OR ‘COLDAMIN’:tn OR ‘COLDREX’:tn OR  ‘COLDREX JUNIOR’:tn OR ‘COLDREX KTR’:tn OR ‘COLDREX MAXGRIP CITRON’:tn OR ‘COLDRIN’:tn OR  ‘COLDVIN’:tn OR ‘COLDY’:tn OR ‘COLDYN MAX STRENGHT’:tn OR ‘COLNIDIN’:tn OR ‘COMBIDOLEX’:tn  OR ‘COMBOGESIC’:tn OR ‘COMPRALGYL’:tn OR ‘CONTAC NON DROWSY DUAL RELIEF’:tn OR  ‘CONTRANEURAL’:tn OR ‘COPAZ’:tn OR ‘COPYRKAL’:tn OR ‘CORTAFRIOL’:tn OR ‘COULDINA CON  PARACETAMOL’:tn OR ‘COULDINA INSTANT CON PARACETAMOL’:tn OR ‘COVONIA COLD & FLU  FORMULA’:tn OR ‘COXUMADOL’:tn OR ‘CROIX BLANCHE’:tn OR ‘CURIDOL’:tn OR ‘CÊGRIPE’:tn OR  ‘DAFALGAN’:tn OR ‘DAFALGANHOP’:tn OR ‘DALERON’:tn OR ‘DAY & NIGHT NURSE’:tn OR ‘DAY COLD &  FLU’:tn OR ‘DAY NURSE’:tn OR ‘DAYMED’:tn OR ‘DEFEBRYL’:tn OR ‘DELPARAN’:tn OR ‘DEPALGOS’:tn  OR ‘DEPOFORTE’:tn OR ‘DEPON’:tn OR ‘DIALGON’:tn OR ‘DILIBAN’:tn OR ‘DIOPPEX’:tn OR ‘DOANS’:tn  OR ‘DOLURON’:tn OR ‘DOLAN’:tn OR ‘DOLETAM’:tn OR ‘DOLEVAR’:tn OR ‘DOLFLASH’:tn OR ‘DOLI ETAT  GRIPPAL’:tn OR ‘DOLI ÉTAT GRIPPAL’:tn OR ‘DOLIPRANE’:tn OR ‘DOLIPRANELIB’:tn OR  ‘DOLIPRANEORO’:tn OR ‘DOLIPRANEVITAMINEC’:tn OR ‘DOLIPRO’:tn OR ‘DOLIRHUME’:tn OR  ‘DOLIRHUMEPRO PARACETAMOL, PSEUDOEPHEDRINE ET DOXYLAMINE, COMPRIME’:tn OR ‘DOLKO’:tn  OR ‘DOLOCATIL’:tn OR ‘DOLOLINSTANT’:tn OR ‘DOLOMEDIL’:tn OR ‘DOLOMO’:tn OR ‘DOLOPYRIN’:tn  OR ‘DOLORAMOL’:tn OR ‘DOLOSTOP’:tn OR ‘DOLOVERSA’:tn OR ‘DOLPRONE’:tn OR ‘DOLSTIC’:tn OR  ‘DOLUXIO COMBI’:tn OR ‘DOLVAN’:tn OR ‘DOREGRIPPIN’:tn OR ‘DORETA’:tn OR ‘DOZOL’:tn OR  ‘DRAY’:tn OR ‘DRILL’:tn OR ‘DUAN’:tn OR ‘DULSIFEB’:tn OR ‘DYPRACET’:tn OR ‘EFETAMOL  COMPRIMIDOS’:tn OR ‘EFETAMOL SOLUCIÓN’:tn OR ‘EFFERALGAN’:tn OR ‘EFFERALGANODIS’:tn OR  ‘EFFERALGANTAB’:tn OR ‘EFFERALGANVITAMINEC’:tn OR ‘ENELFA’:tn OR ‘ERIFRIN’:tn OR  ‘ERKÄLTUNGSGETRÄNK’:tn OR ‘ERKÄLTUNGSSIRUP FÜR DIE NACHT’:tn OR ‘ETOPIRYNA PLUS’:tn OR  ‘EXBOL’:tn OR ‘EXCEDITE’:tn OR ‘EXCEDRIN’:tn OR ‘EXCEDRINIL’:tn OR ‘EXCEDRYN’:tn OR  ‘EXOPON’:tn OR ‘FARINGO HOT DRINK’:tn OR ‘FASCONAL’:tn OR ‘FASCONAL PRO’:tn OR  ‘FEBRECTAL’:tn OR ‘FEBRIDOL’:tn OR ‘FEBRILIN’:tn OR ‘FEBRISAN’:tn OR ‘FENNINGS CHILDRENS’:tn  OR ‘FERVEFLU ADULTS SUGARFREE’:tn OR ‘FERVEFLU ANTITUSSIVE’:tn OR ‘FERVEX’:tn OR  ‘FIBRALGIN C’:tn OR ‘FIBREX’:tn OR ‘FINEURAL’:tn OR ‘FINIMAL’:tn OR ‘FINIMAL ZEST’:tn OR ‘FLU  STRENGTH HOT LEMON’:tn OR ‘FLU TRIPLA AZIONE’:tn OR ‘FLUCONTROL HOT’:tn OR ‘FLUCONTROL  MAX’:tn OR ‘FLUENTAL’:tn OR ‘FLUFIX HOT DRINK’:tn OR ‘FLUIMUCIL COMPLEX’:tn OR ‘FLUIMUCIL  INFLUENZA E RAFFREDDORE’:tn OR ‘FLUMIN’:tn OR ‘FLUNATHAN’:tn OR ‘FLUSTIMEX’:tn OR  ‘FORTAMOL’:tn OR ‘FOXIS’:tn OR ‘FRENADOL’:tn OR ‘FRIALGINA’:tn OR ‘FRICOLD’:tn OR ‘GAOSEDAL  CODEINE’:tn OR ‘GELOCATIL’:tn OR ‘GELONIDA SCHMERZTABLETTEN’:tn OR ‘GELOPROM’:tn OR  ‘GELOPROMT’:tn OR ‘GELOPROSED’:tn OR ‘GELUPRANE’:tn OR ‘GEMIPAR’:tn OR ‘GEWADALPAMOL’:tn  OR ‘GRIPAVICKS’:tn OR ‘GRIPEX’:tn OR ‘GRIPOFLEKS 500’:tn OR ‘GRIPOFLEKS 750’:tn OR  ‘GRIPONAL’:tn OR ‘GRIPOSTOP’:tn OR ‘GRIPPAL+C ’:tn OR ‘GRIPPEX’:tn OR ‘GRIPPOMED’:tn OR  ‘GRIPPOSTAD’:tn OR ‘GRYPOLEK’:tn OR ‘GRYPOSTOP’:tn OR ‘HATABLETTEN N GEGEN SCHMERZEN’:tn  OR ‘HEADACHE AND INDIGESTION RELIEF’:tn OR ‘HEADACHE RELIEF’:tn OR ‘HEDEX’:tn OR ‘HEMA  KINDERPARACETAMOL ZETPIL HEMA’:tn OR ‘HEMICRANEAL’:tn OR ‘HIBIGRIPAL’:tn OR ‘HIPATRA   REGIST’:tn OR ‘HOOFDPIJNPOEDERS’:tn OR ‘HOT BLACKCURRANT COLD RELIEF’:tn OR ‘HOT  COLDREX’:tn OR ‘HOT LEMON COLD RELIEF’:tn OR ‘HOTMAX’:tn OR ‘HOTRIMOX’:tn OR ‘HUMAGRIP’:tn  OR ‘HUMEX COLD’:tn OR ‘HUMEX RHUME’:tn OR ‘HUMEXGRIP’:tn OR ‘HUMEXLIB’:tn OR ‘HUMEXLIB  ETAT GRIPPAL’:tn OR ‘IBUEM’:tn OR ‘IBUPAROL’:tn OR ‘IBUPROFEN AND PARACETAMOL’:tn OR ‘IDYL  KINDERPARACETAMOL’:tn OR ‘IDYL PARACETAMOL’:tn OR ‘IDYL PARACETAMOLCOFFEINE SDG  FARMA’:tn OR ‘INFLUASS’:tn OR ‘INFLUBENE’:tn OR ‘INFLUCUP’:tn OR ‘INFLUDEX’:tn OR ‘INFLUENZA E  RAFFREDDORE’:tn OR ‘INFLUMED’:tn OR ‘INFLUVIT’:tn OR ‘IROCOPHAN’:tn OR ‘IXPRIM’:tn OR  ‘IZALGI’:tn OR ‘JUMBO KINDERPARACETAMOL’:tn OR ‘JUMBO PARACETAMOL’:tn OR ‘KAPAKE’:tn OR  ‘KIDOFEN DUO’:tn OR ‘KINDERPARACETAMOL’:tn OR ‘KLIPAL CODEINE’:tn OR ‘KODIPAR’:tn OR  ‘KOFIDEC’:tn OR ‘KOLIBRI’:tn OR ‘KOMBI ERKÄLTUNGSGETRÄNK’:tn OR ‘KORYLAN’:tn OR  ‘KRUIDVAT’:tn OR ‘KRUIDVAT PARACETAMOL’:tn OR ‘LAFOR’:tn OR ‘LAMALINE’:tn OR ‘LEIDAPHARM     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 17/368   APC’:tn OR ‘LEIDAPHARM KINDERPARACETAMOL’:tn OR ‘LEIDAPHARM PARACETAMOL’:tn OR  ‘LEKADOL’:tn OR ‘LEKADOR’:tn OR ‘LEM PLUS’:tn OR ‘LEM PLUSHOT LEMON’:tn OR ‘LEMON  COLDREX’:tn OR ‘LEMSIP’:tn OR ‘LIATAMOLO’:tn OR ‘LINDILANE’:tn OR ‘LINEROL’:tn OR ‘LISOFLU’:tn  OR ‘LISOPAN’:tn OR ‘LLVICO’:tn OR ‘LONALGAL’:tn OR ‘LONARID’:tn OR ‘LUPOCET’:tn OR  ‘LUPRATRAC’:tn OR ‘MANDANOL’:tn OR ‘MANN’:tn OR ‘MARANZA’:tn OR ‘MAX STRENGTH COLD & FLU  LEMON FLAVOUR’:tn OR ‘MAXFLU’:tn OR ‘MAXILIEF’:tn OR ‘MEDICOLDAX’:tn OR ‘MEDINAIT’:tn OR  ‘MEDINITE’:tn OR ‘MEDINITE COMPLETE’:tn OR ‘MEDINITE SIRUP’:tn OR ‘MEDINOL’:tn OR  ‘MEDRACET’:tn OR ‘MELABON’:tn OR ‘METAFEN’:tn OR ‘MEXAVIT.C’:tn OR ‘MEXALEN’:tn OR  ‘MIGRAEFLUX MCP’:tn OR ‘MIGRALAVE + MCP’:tn OR ‘MIGRALEVE’:tn OR ‘MIGRALEVE YELLOW’:tn OR  ‘MIGRALGIN’:tn OR ‘MIGRALGINE’:tn OR ‘MIGRETIL’:tn OR ‘MIGRÄNENEURIDAL’:tn OR  ‘MINDELHEIMER KOPFSCHMERZ’:tn OR ‘MIPYRIN’:tn OR ‘MIRALGN TABL’:tn OR ‘MOBISTIX FORTE  INSTANT’:tn OR ‘MOBISTIX INSTANT’:tn OR ‘MOBISTIX JUNIOR INSTANT’:tn OR ‘MODAFEN HOT  DRINK’:tn OR ‘MONO PRAECIMED’:tn OR ‘MYLORAMOL’:tn OR ‘NPARACETAMOL’:tn OR ‘NEALGIN’:tn  OR ‘NEDAC SORBO KINDERPARACETAMOL’:tn OR ‘NEO BOROCILLINA’:tn OR ‘NEO BOROCILLINA  RAFFREDDORE E FEBBRE’:tn OR ‘NEO CITRAN’:tn OR ‘NEO NEVRAL’:tn OR ‘NEO NISIDINA’:tn OR  ‘NEOCIBALGINA’:tn OR ‘NEONISIDINA C’:tn OR ‘NEOOPTALIDON’:tn OR ‘NEOASKOFENAS’:tn OR  ‘NEOCITRAMONAS’:tn OR ‘NEOGRIP’:tn OR ‘NEROZILA’:tn OR ‘NEURALGIN’:tn OR ‘NEURANIDAL N  SCHMERZTABLETTEN’:tn OR ‘NEVRALMED’:tn OR ‘NIGHT COLD & FLU RELIEF’:tn OR ‘NIGHT NURSE’:tn  OR ‘NIGHT NURSE COLD REMEDY’:tn OR ‘NIGHT NURSE HOT LEMON MENTHOL’:tn OR ‘NIOCITRAN’:tn  OR ‘NIROLEX FEBBRE E DOLORE’:tn OR ‘NIROLEX FLU TRIPLA AZIONE’:tn OR ‘NOSPALGIN’:tn OR  ‘NOALGA’:tn OR ‘NONDROWSY SINUTAB’:tn OR ‘NONDROWSY SUDAPLUS’:tn OR ‘NORGESIC’:tn OR  ‘NORMAFLU’:tn OR ‘NUROFEN ULTIMA’:tn OR ‘NUROMOL’:tn OR ‘NYGEN’:tn OR ‘OCTADON P’:tn OR  ‘OKALGRIP’:tn OR ‘OLASKOFĒNS’:tn OR ‘OLCITRAMONS’:tn OR ‘OPTALIDON’:tn OR ‘OPTIPYRIN’:tn OR  ‘PABIALGIN NEO’:tn OR ‘PACET’:tn OR ‘PADEVIX’:tn OR ‘PADOLIEVE’:tn OR ‘PADOLIEVE MAX’:tn OR  ‘PADOLTEN’:tn OR ‘PAEDIALGON’:tn OR ‘PAIN RELIEF’:tn OR ‘PALGOTAL’:tn OR ‘PAMOL’:tn OR  ‘PAMOLHOTC’:tn OR ‘PANACOD’:tn OR ‘PANADEINE’:tn OR ‘PANADOL’:tn OR ‘PANADOL BABY’:tn OR  ‘PANADOL EXTRA’:tn OR ‘PANADOL MAX’:tn OR ‘PANADOL PLUS’:tn OR ‘PANAGRAM MAX’:tn OR  ‘PANASORBE’:tn OR ‘PANCONTRA’:tn OR ‘PANOCOD’:tn OR ‘PANODIL’:tn OR ‘PANODOL FORTE’:tn OR  ‘PANONEO’:tn OR ‘PANTADOLOR’:tn OR ‘PAPCO’:tn OR ‘PAPHADEX COMBI’:tn OR ‘PARACAF’:tn OR  ‘PARAHOT’:tn OR ‘PARASUPPO’:tn OR ‘PARATABS’:tn OR ‘PARACEDOL’:tn OR ‘PARACEON’:tn OR  ‘PARACET’:tn OR ‘PARACETA’:tn OR ‘PARACETAMAX’:tn OR ‘PARACETAMOL’:tn OR  ‘PARACETAMOL+TRAMADOL MEPHA’:tn OR ‘PARACETAMOL, CAFEINA FARMEX’:tn OR ‘PARACETAMOL,  CODEINE AND CAFFEINE’:tn OR ‘PARACETAMOLPHENYLEPHRINE HYDROCHLORIDE POWDER’:tn OR  ‘PARACETAMOL’:tn OR ‘PARACETAMOLTRAMADOL HCL ’:tn OR ‘PARACETAMOLASPIRINCAFFEINE  WOCKHARDT UK LTD’:tn OR ‘PARACETAMOLASSCOFFEIN KOPFSCHMERZ & MIGRÄNE’:tn OR  ‘PARACETAMOLCAFFEINE WOCKHARDT UK LTD’:tn OR ‘PARACETAMOLCAFFEINEPHENYLEPHRINE  HYDROCHLORIDE WOCKHARDT UK LTD’:tn OR ‘PARACETAMOLCAFFEINEPHENYLEPHRINE’:tn OR  ‘PARACETAMOLCHLORPHENAMINE URGO’:tn OR ‘PARACETAMOLCODEIN’:tn OR  ‘PARACETAMOLCODEINE’:tn OR ‘PARACETAMOLCODEÍNA’:tn OR ‘PARACETAMOLCOFFEINE’:tn OR  ‘PARACETAMOLCOFFEÏNE’:tn OR ‘PARACETAMOLKODEIN’:tn OR ‘PARACETAMOLKODEIN’:tn OR  ‘PARACETAMOLKODEIN EVOLAN’:tn OR ‘PARACETAMOLPHENYLEPHRINE’:tn OR  ‘PARACETAMOLPHENYLEPHRINE HYDROCHLORID’:tn OR ‘PARACETAMOLPOUDRE DOPIUM’:tn OR  ‘PARACETAMOLPROMETHAZINE HYDROCHLORIDEDEXTROMETHORPHAN HYDROBROMIDE’:tn OR  ‘PARACETAMOLVITAMINE’:tn OR ‘PARACETAMOLO’:tn OR ‘PARACETDUO’:tn OR ‘PARACETOL’:tn OR  ‘PARACOD’:tn OR ‘PARACODOL’:tn OR ‘PARACOF’:tn OR ‘PARACOFDAL’:tn OR ‘PARACUT’:tn OR  ‘PARADOLOR CAPPUCCINOGESCHMACK’:tn OR ‘PARADOLOR ERDBEERVANILLE’:tn OR ‘PARADOREN’:tn  OR ‘PARAEXTRA’:tn OR ‘PARAFLUDETEN’:tn OR ‘PARAFLUX’:tn OR ‘PARAFUSE’:tn OR ‘PARAFUSIV’:tn  OR ‘PARAGRIP C’:tn OR ‘PARALEN’:tn OR ‘PARALEN SUS’:tn OR ‘PARALGAM’:tn OR ‘PARALGAME’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 18/368   ‘PARALGIL’:tn OR ‘PARALIEF’:tn OR ‘PARALINK’:tn OR ‘PARALYOC’:tn OR ‘PARAMAX’:tn OR  ‘PARAMAXCOD’:tn OR ‘PARAMEGAL’:tn OR ‘PARAMOL’:tn OR ‘PARAMOLAN’:tn OR ‘PARAMOLAN C’:tn  OR ‘PARAPHAR’:tn OR ‘PARASINUS’:tn OR ‘PARASINUS PENTA’:tn OR ‘PARASOLVE MAX’:tn OR  ‘PARATABS’:tn OR ‘PARATABS’:tn OR ‘PARATRAM’:tn OR ‘PARATRAMOL’:tn OR ‘PARCODIN’:tn OR  ‘PARCOTEN’:tn OR ‘PARECETAMOLCAFFEINEPHENYLEPHRINE HYDROCHLORIDE’:tn OR ‘PARKÓDÍN’:tn  OR ‘PARSEL’:tn OR ‘PARSELC’:tn OR ‘PARSELS’:tn OR ‘PARTRAMEC’:tn OR ‘PATROL’:tn OR ‘PAZITAL’:tn  OR ‘PCMHEMOPHARM’:tn OR ‘PETAM’:tn OR ‘PEDICETAMOL’:tn OR ‘PERDOLAN’:tn OR ‘PERFALGAN’:tn  OR ‘PERFALGAN POLYPROPYLENE BAG’:tn OR ‘PERIOD PAIN RELIEF’:tn OR ‘PHARMAGRIP’:tn OR  ‘PINEMOL’:tn OR ‘PINEX’:tn OR ‘PIRALDOL’:tn OR ‘PIRANTAMOL’:tn OR ‘PIRESTOP’:tn OR ‘PIROS’:tn  OR ‘PLICET’:tn OR ‘PLIVADON’:tn OR ‘PLIVAMED’:tn OR ‘POCKETPAK’:tn OR ‘POLTRAM COMBO’:tn OR  ‘PONTALSIC’:tn OR ‘POWDER FOR ORAL SOLUTION’:tn OR ‘PPC’:tn OR ‘PR’:tn OR ‘PREST’:tn OR  ‘PRIMACARE COLD & FLU RELIEF LEMON POWDER’:tn OR ‘PRONTALGINE’:tn OR ‘PROPAIN PLUS’:tn OR  ‘PROPALGINA PLUS’:tn OR ‘PROPYFENAZON COMP.’:tn OR ‘PROTALGON’:tn OR ‘PUERIFLU’:tn OR  ‘QURAMOL’:tn OR ‘RACETIC’:tn OR ‘RAFFREDDOREMED’:tn OR ‘RAMPAR’:tn OR ‘RATIOGRIP’:tn OR  ‘RATIOPYRIN’:tn OR ‘REMEDEINE’:tn OR ‘REMEDOL’:tn OR ‘RENLAUCOL’:tn OR ‘RESFRIVICKS’:tn OR  ‘RESOLVEBOHM’:tn OR ‘RETORTAPYRIN’:tn OR ‘RHINOFEBRYL’:tn OR ‘RHINOSTOP’:tn OR  ‘RHUMAGRIP’:tn OR ‘ROBAXISAL COMPUESTO’:tn OR ‘ROLOD’:tn OR ‘ROTER APC’:tn OR ‘ROTER  PARACETAMOL’:tn OR ‘ROWALIEF’:tn OR ‘ROWASIP COLD & FLU WITH DECONGESTANT’:tn OR  ‘ROWASIP MAX STRENGTH COLD & FLU WITH DECONGESTANT’:tn OR ‘RUBOPHEN’:tn OR  ‘SANADOR’:tn OR ‘SANALGIN’:tn OR ‘SANIDUO FEBBRE E NASO CHIUSO’:tn OR ‘SANIPIRINA’:tn OR  ‘SARIDON’:tn OR ‘SEDALGIN NEO’:tn OR ‘SEDARENE’:tn OR ‘SEDIS’:tn OR ‘SEDOLORIS’:tn OR  ‘SERRAGRIP’:tn OR ‘SIGAMOL’:tn OR ‘SINEBRIV FEBBRE E DOLORE’:tn OR ‘SINEGRIP’:tn OR  ‘SINPRO’:tn OR ‘SINUTAB’:tn OR ‘SINUTABFORTE’:tn OR ‘SNIP’:tn OR ‘SOLFLU’:tn OR  ‘SOLPASINUS’:tn OR ‘SOLPADEINE’:tn OR ‘SOLPADOL’:tn OR ‘SOLUBLE CUPANOL LEMON FLAVOUR’:tn  OR ‘SOLUCIÓN ORAL’:tn OR ‘SOLVONGRIP’:tn OR ‘SOOTHEZE PLUS’:tn OR ‘SPASMOPAN’:tn OR  ‘STASIPARA’:tn OR ‘STRENDUO’:tn OR ‘SUDAFED DECONGESTANT & PAIN’:tn OR ‘SUPOFEN’:tn OR  ‘SURBRONC ETAT GRIPPAL’:tn OR ‘SWISPARA’:tn OR ‘SYMPTOMED’:tn OR ‘SYMTRAM’:tn OR  ‘SYNDOL’:tn OR ‘TABCIN TREND’:tn OR ‘TABLETTA ANTIDOLORICA’:tn OR ‘TACHICAF’:tn OR  ‘TACHIDOL’:tn OR ‘TACHIFENE’:tn OR ‘TACHIFLUDEC’:tn OR ‘TACHIFLUDEC GUSTO LIMONE’:tn OR  ‘TACHINOTTE’:tn OR ‘TACHIPIRIN’:tn OR ‘TACHIPIRINA’:tn OR ‘TACHIPIRINAFLU’:tn OR  ‘TACHIVERDE’:tn OR ‘TAKIPIRINA’:tn OR ‘TALVOSILEN’:tn OR ‘TAMOCHIR’:tn OR ‘TEEDEX’:tn OR  ‘TEMAGIN PAC’:tn OR ‘TEMAGIN PARACETAMOL PLUS’:tn OR ‘TEMPIDOL’:tn OR ‘TERMADEC’:tn OR  ‘TERMALDINA’:tn OR ‘TERMALGIN’:tn OR ‘TERMANASAL’:tn OR ‘TERMOL’:tn OR ‘TESCO’:tn OR  ‘GRIP’:tn OR ‘TEVITAMOL’:tn OR ‘THEINOL’:tn OR ‘THERACOMPLEX ERKÄLTUNG & HUSTEN’:tn OR  ‘THERAFLU’:tn OR ‘THERAPEUTICON’:tn OR ‘THERIMIN’:tn OR ‘THOMAPYRIN’:tn OR ‘TIALGIN’:tn OR  ‘TITRALGAN GEGEN SCHMERZEN’:tn OR ‘TITRETTA’:tn OR ‘TITRETTA SCHMERZTABLETTEN’:tn OR  ‘TOGAL CLASSIC DUO’:tn OR ‘TOGAL KOMBI’:tn OR ‘TOMAKET’:tn OR ‘TOMASS’:tn OR ‘TOMIN’:tn OR  ‘TONYPIRYN’:tn OR ‘TOPLEXIL’:tn OR ‘TRACEMOL’:tn OR ‘TRACIMOL’:tn OR ‘TRALZARO VENIPHARM’:tn  OR ‘TRAMABIAN’:tn OR ‘TRAMACET’:tn OR ‘TRAMADOL + PARACETAMOL’:tn OR ‘TRAMADOL   PARACETAMOL’:tn OR ‘TRAMADOL HCLPARACETAMOL’:tn OR ‘TRAMADOL HYDROCHLORIDE  PARACETAMOL FILMCOATED TABLET’:tn OR ‘TRAMADOL HYDROCHLORIDE AND PARACETAMOL  DAWA’:tn OR ‘TRAMADOL HYDROCHLORIDEPARACETAMOL’:tn OR ‘TRAMADOL PARACETAMOL’:tn OR  ‘TRAMADOL PARACETAMOL’:tn OR ‘TRAMADOLHYDROCHLORIDPARACETAMOL’:tn OR ‘TRAMADOLOR  PLUS’:tn OR ‘TRAMADOX’:tn OR ‘TRAMAPAR’:tn OR ‘TRAMAPRAM’:tn OR ‘TRAMAPRAN’:tn OR  ‘TRAMCET’:tn OR ‘TRAMPALGIN’:tn OR ‘TRAMYLPA’:tn OR ‘TRAPAR’:tn OR ‘TRAUMOBOL’:tn OR  ‘TREKPLEISTER APC’:tn OR ‘TREKPLEISTER KINDERPARACETAMOL’:tn OR ‘TREKPLEISTER  PARACETAMOL’:tn OR ‘TREKPLEISTER PARACETAMOL MET COFFEINE’:tn OR ‘TRIACTIN’:tn OR  ‘TRIACTIN COMPLETE’:tn OR ‘TRIAMINIC’:tn OR ‘TRIFLU’:tn OR ‘TRIFLUNEX’:tn OR ‘TRIGAN D’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 19/368   ‘TRIMEDIC’:tn OR ‘TRIMEDIL’:tn OR ‘TRINELL PRO’:tn OR ‘TROC’:tn OR ‘TROPHIRES COMPOSE’:tn OR  ‘TUTUS’:tn OR ‘TYLENOL’:tn OR ‘TYLEX’:tn OR ‘TYLEX, MEDOCODENE’:tn OR ‘ULTRACOD’:tn OR  ‘ULTRAMOL’:tn OR ‘UNAFLUX’:tn OR ‘UNEBRIL’:tn OR ‘UNIFLU’:tn OR ‘VALCOMB’:tn OR ‘VALETOL’:tn  OR ‘VEGANIN’:tn OR ‘VERAMON’:tn OR ‘VETOPAR’:tn OR ‘VICKS ACTIVE MAX’:tn OR ‘VICKS  LĂMÂIE’:tn OR ‘VICKS SYMPTOMED CLASSIC CITRÓN’:tn OR ‘VINCIGRIP’:tn OR ‘VIRALKEY’:tn OR  ‘VIVIMED’:tn OR ‘VIVIMED MIT COFFEIN GEGEN KOPFSCHMERZEN’:tn OR ‘VIVIMED N GEGEN FIEBER  UND KOPFSCHMERZEN’:tn OR ‘VLOEIBAAR VOOR KINDEREN’:tn OR ‘WEGMAL’:tn OR ‘WITTE KRUIS’:tn  OR ‘XUMADOL’:tn OR ‘XUMADOL COMPRIMIDOS’:tn OR ‘XUMADOL GRANULADO’:tn OR ‘XYMEL  COMP’:tn OR ‘YENDOL’:tn OR ‘ZALDIAR’:tn OR ‘ZAPAIN’:tn OR ‘ZARACET’:tn OR ‘ZEGLIO’:tn OR  ‘ZERINOL’:tn OR ‘ZERINOLFLU’:tn OR ‘ZEUSEFF’:tn OR ‘ZILPEN’:tn OR ‘ZOTRAMID’:tn OR ‘ABENOL’:tn  OR ‘ACAMOL’:tn OR ‘ACENOL’:tn OR ‘ACEPHEN’:tn OR ‘ACET’:tn OR ‘ACETA’:tn OR ‘ACETALGIN’:tn OR  ‘ACETAMINOPHEN’:tn OR ‘ACETAMOL’:tn OR ‘ACTIFED’:tn OR ‘ACTRON’:tn OR ‘ACURATE’:tn OR  ‘ADALGUR’:tn OR ‘ADCODOL’:tn OR ‘ADCOSINAL CO’:tn OR ‘ADINOL’:tn OR ‘ADOL’:tn OR ‘ALAXAN’:tn  OR ‘ALGITRIN’:tn OR ‘ALGOCOD’:tn OR ‘ALKASELTZER PLUS’:tn OR ‘ALKASELTZER PLUSD  MULTISYMPTOM SINUS AND COLD’:tn OR ‘ALPINY’:tn OR ‘ALVEDON’:tn OR ‘ANACIN ASPIRIN FREE’:tn  OR ‘ANADIN’:tn OR ‘ANADIN EXTRA’:tn OR ‘ANAGRAINE’:tn OR ‘ANALGAN’:tn OR ‘ANALGAN EXTRA’:tn  OR ‘ANAREX’:tn OR ‘ANHIBA’:tn OR ‘ANTIDOL’:tn OR ‘ANTIGRIPAL’:tn OR ‘ANTIGRIPPIN’:tn OR  ‘ANYRUME’:tn OR ‘APAP’:tn OR ‘APC’:tn OR ‘APOTRAMADOLACET’:tn OR ‘ARTHRITIS PAIN  RELIEVER’:tn OR ‘ATASOL FORTE’:tn OR ‘ATMIPHEN’:tn OR ‘AZUR’:tn OR ‘BECETAMOL’:tn OR  ‘BENURON’:tn OR ‘BENADRYL TOTAL’:tn OR ‘BENYLIN’:tn OR ‘BERAMOL’:tn OR ‘BETAPYN’:tn OR  ‘BIOGESIC’:tn OR ‘BUCKLEYS COMPLETE EXTRA STRENGTH COUGH, COLD AND FLU NIGHT’:tn OR  ‘BUCKLEYS COMPLETE NIGHTTIME’:tn OR ‘BUSCAPINA COMPOSITUM N’:tn OR ‘BUSCODUO’:tn OR  ‘BUSCOPAN COMPOSITUM’:tn OR ‘BUSCOPAN PLUS’:tn OR ‘CAFFETIN’:tn OR ‘CALONAL’:tn OR  ‘CALPOL’:tn OR ‘CALSIL’:tn OR ‘CAPITAL & CODEINE’:tn OR ‘CAPTIN’:tn OR ‘CEFECON D’:tn OR  ‘CETAMOL’:tn OR ‘CHILDRENS PANADOL’:tn OR ‘CHILDRENS PARACETAMOL’:tn OR ‘CHILDRENS  TYLENOL’:tn OR ‘CHILDRENS TYLENOL’:tn OR ‘CIBALENA A’:tn OR ‘CITRAMON’:tn OR ‘CITROSAN’:tn  OR ‘CLARADOL’:tn OR ‘COBECETAMOL’:tn OR ‘COCODAMOL’:tn OR ‘CODAFALGAN’:tn OR  ‘CODYDRAMOL’:tn OR ‘COEFFERALGAN’:tn OR ‘COTYLENOL’:tn OR ‘COCARL’:tn OR  ‘CODEFFERALGAN’:tn OR ‘CODALGIN’:tn OR ‘CODAMOL’:tn OR ‘CODAPANE’:tn OR ‘CODOLIPRANE’:tn  OR ‘COLDEX’:tn OR ‘COLDREX’:tn OR ‘COLDREX HOTREM’:tn OR ‘COLNIDIN’:tn OR ‘COMTREX’:tn OR  ‘CORICIDIN HBP’:tn OR ‘CURADON’:tn OR ‘CURIDOL’:tn OR ‘DAFALGAN’:tn OR ‘DATRIL’:tn OR  ‘DAYQUIL’:tn OR ‘DECOLGEN’:tn OR ‘DEXAMOL’:tn OR ‘DIMETAPP NIGHTIME’:tn OR ‘DISPROL’:tn OR  ‘DOLCET’:tn OR ‘DOLGESIC’:tn OR ‘DOLIPRANE’:tn OR ‘DOLIRHUME’:tn OR ‘DOLO’:tn OR ‘DOLO650’:tn  OR ‘DOLOFRIX’:tn OR ‘DOLOROL’:tn OR ‘DOLOSTOP’:tn OR ‘DOLPRONE’:tn OR ‘DOLTRAMCET’:tn OR  ‘DORICO’:tn OR ‘DOZOL’:tn OR ‘DRISTAN COLD MULTISYMPTOM’:tn OR ‘DRISTAN EXTRA  STRENGTH’:tn OR ‘DUATROL SR’:tn OR ‘DUMIN’:tn OR ‘DYMADON’:tn OR ‘DYMADON P’:tn OR  ‘EFFERALGAN’:tn OR ‘EMPAPED’:tn OR ‘EMPRACET’:tn OR ‘EMTEC30’:tn OR ‘ENDOCET’:tn OR  ‘EQUATE’:tn OR ‘EQUATE ARTHRITIS PAIN’:tn OR ‘EQUATE DAY TIME COLD AND FLU MULTI SYMPTOM  RELIEF’:tn OR ‘EQUATE PAIN RELIEVER EXTRA STRENGTH’:tn OR ‘EUROPAIN’:tn OR ‘EXCEDRIN’:tn OR  ‘EXCEDRYN’:tn OR ‘EXEDRIN’:tn OR ‘EXTRA STRENGTH QPAP’:tn OR ‘EXTRA STRENGTH TYLENOL’:tn  OR ‘FEBRECTOL’:tn OR ‘FEBRICET’:tn OR ‘FEBRIDOL’:tn OR ‘FECOL’:tn OR ‘FEMINAX’:tn OR  ‘FERVEX’:tn OR ‘FEVERALL’:tn OR ‘FINEURAL’:tn OR ‘FINIMAL’:tn OR ‘FLUIMUCIL GRIPPE DAY &  NIGHT’:tn OR ‘FLUTEX’:tn OR ‘FRENADOL’:tn OR ‘GERALGINEK’:tn OR ‘GOODYS EXTRA STRENGTH’:tn  OR ‘GOODYS’:tn OR ‘GRIPEX’:tn OR ‘HEDEX’:tn OR ‘ILVICO’:tn OR ‘INFANTS CONCENTRATED  TYLENOL’:tn OR ‘INFANTS TYLENOL’:tn OR ‘IXPRIM’:tn OR ‘JAMPACETTRAMADOL’:tn OR ‘KLIPAL’:tn OR  ‘KLIPAL CODEINE’:tn OR ‘LEKADOL’:tn OR ‘LEMSIP’:tn OR ‘LINDILANE’:tn OR ‘LONARID’:tn OR  ‘MAGNACET’:tn OR ‘MAPAP’:tn OR ‘MAPAP ARTHRITIS PAIN’:tn OR ‘MEDINITE’:tn OR ‘MERSYNDOL  DAYSTRENGTH’:tn OR ‘METOMAX’:tn OR ‘MEXALEN’:tn OR ‘MIDOL’:tn OR ‘MIGRAINE FORMULA’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 20/368   ‘MIGRALEVE’:tn OR ‘MIGRALGINE’:tn OR ‘MINOSET PLUS’:tn OR ‘MIOCITALGAN’:tn OR ‘MOMENTUM’:tn  OR ‘MUCINEX FASTMAX COLD AND SINUS’:tn OR ‘MUSCOL’:tn OR ‘MYPAID’:tn OR ‘MYPAID FORTE’:tn  OR ‘NAPA’:tn OR ‘NAPACOD’:tn OR ‘NARON’:tn OR ‘NEO CITRAN’:tn OR ‘NEOCITRAN’:tn OR  ‘NEOPYRIN’:tn OR ‘NEOSEC’:tn OR ‘NEOZEP’:tn OR ‘NEURALGIN’:tn OR ‘NONASPIRIN’:tn OR ‘NOREL  SR’:tn OR ‘NORFLEX PLUS’:tn OR ‘NORGESIC’:tn OR ‘NOVO PETRIN’:tn OR ‘NOVOGESIC’:tn OR  ‘NYQUIL COLD AND FLU’:tn OR ‘NYQUIL D COLD AND FLU NIGHTTIME RELIEF’:tn OR ‘OFIRMEV’:tn OR  ‘ORKELAX’:tn OR ‘OXYCOCET’:tn OR ‘OXYCODONE HYDROCHLORIDE AND ACETAMINOPHEN  WATSON’:tn OR ‘PACIMOL’:tn OR ‘PACOFEN’:tn OR ‘PAIN RELIEF’:tn OR ‘PAIN RELIEVER PM’:tn OR  ‘PAINAMOL’:tn OR ‘PAINBLOK’:tn OR ‘PAINSTOP’:tn OR ‘PAMOL’:tn OR ‘PANACOD’:tn OR  ‘PANADEINE’:tn OR ‘PANADO’:tn OR ‘PANADOL’:tn OR ‘PANADOL BABY’:tn OR ‘PANADOL COLD &  FLU’:tn OR ‘PANADOL EXTRA’:tn OR ‘PANALGINE’:tn OR ‘PANAMAX’:tn OR ‘PANOCOD’:tn OR  ‘PANODIL’:tn OR ‘PARACET’:tn OR ‘PARACETAMOL CODEINE’:tn OR  ‘PARACETAMOLCODEINEFOSFAAT’:tn OR ‘PARACETAMOLCODEÏNEFOSFAAT’:tn OR ‘PARACETOL’:tn OR  ‘PARACOD’:tn OR ‘PARACODE’:tn OR ‘PARACODOL’:tn OR ‘PARADOL’:tn OR ‘PARALGIN’:tn OR  ‘PARALYOC’:tn OR ‘PARAMAX’:tn OR ‘PARAMED’:tn OR ‘PARAMOL’:tn OR ‘PARATRAM’:tn OR ‘PCM’:tn  OR ‘PETAM’:tn OR ‘PEDIATRIX’:tn OR ‘PERCOCET’:tn OR ‘PERFALGAN’:tn OR ‘PERFUSALGAN’:tn OR  ‘PINEX’:tn OR ‘PRETUVAL’:tn OR ‘PRIMLEV’:tn OR ‘PROCET’:tn OR ‘PRODEINE’:tn OR ‘PROGESIC’:tn OR  ‘PROLIEF’:tn OR ‘PYNSTOP’:tn OR ‘PYRINAZIN’:tn OR ‘RAPID RELEASE PAIN RELIEVER’:tn OR  ‘RAPIDOL’:tn OR ‘RATIOLENOLTEC’:tn OR ‘RATIOOXYCOCET’:tn OR ‘RELIV’:tn OR ‘REMEDEINE’:tn OR  ‘RESFEDRYL’:tn OR ‘RESFENOL’:tn OR ‘RIBER’:tn OR ‘RINUTAN’:tn OR ‘RIVACOCET’:tn OR  ‘ROBAXIFEN’:tn OR ‘ROBAXISAL COMPUESTO’:tn OR ‘ROKACET’:tn OR ‘ROXICET’:tn OR ‘SANMOL’:tn  OR ‘SARA COLD PS’:tn OR ‘SARIDON’:tn OR ‘SARUTU’:tn OR ‘SEDALMERCK’:tn OR ‘SETAMOL’:tn OR  ‘SG’:tn OR ‘SINASPRIL’:tn OR ‘SINE OFF’:tn OR ‘SINUMAX ALLERGY SINUS’:tn OR ‘SINUS RELIEF’:tn  OR ‘SINUTAB’:tn OR ‘SOLPADEINE’:tn OR ‘SOLPADOL’:tn OR ‘SONRIDOR’:tn OR ‘SPALT’:tn OR  ‘SPECTRAPAIN’:tn OR ‘STONA COLD’:tn OR ‘STOPAIN’:tn OR ‘SUDAFED COLD AND COUGH EXTRA  STRENGTH’:tn OR ‘SUDAFED HEAD COLD & SINUS EXTRA STRENGTH’:tn OR ‘SUDAFED PE PRESSURE  PLUS PAIN’:tn OR ‘SUDAFED PE PRESSURE PLUS PAIN PLUS COUGH’:tn OR ‘SUDAFED SINUS +  ALLERGY & PAIN RELIEF’:tn OR ‘SUNITON’:tn OR ‘SUPADOL’:tn OR ‘SUPRACALM’:tn OR ‘SYNDOL’:tn  OR ‘TACHIPIRINA’:tn OR ‘TAFIROL’:tn OR ‘TAMINOL’:tn OR ‘TAMOL’:tn OR ‘TEEN MIDOL COMPLETE’:tn  OR ‘TEMPRA’:tn OR ‘TERMALGIN’:tn OR ‘TERMOFREN’:tn OR ‘THERAFLU’:tn OR ‘THOMAPYRIN’:tn OR  ‘TIFFY’:tn OR ‘TRAMACET’:tn OR ‘TRAMADOLACET’:tn OR ‘TRAMADOLACETAMINOPHEN ’:tn OR  ‘TRAMCET’:tn OR ‘TRAMIL’:tn OR ‘TREZIX’:tn OR ‘TRIAMINIC’:tn OR ‘TRIATEC30’:tn OR ‘TRIMOL’:tn  OR ‘TYLENOL’:tn OR ‘TYLENOL SINUS’:tn OR ‘TYLENOL WITH CODEINE’:tn OR ‘TYLEX’:tn OR ‘TYLOL’:tn  OR ‘TYLOX’:tn OR ‘ULTRACET’:tn OR ‘VEGANIN’:tn OR ‘VERAMON’:tn OR ‘VERMIDON’:tn OR ‘VICKS  DAYQUIL SINUS’:tn OR ‘VICKS FORMULA 44M’:tn OR ‘VICKS NYQUIL COLD AND FLU’:tn OR ‘VOPAC’:tn  OR ‘WINADOL’:tn OR ‘XOLOX’:tn OR ‘ZALDIAR’:tn OR ‘ZARACET’:tn OR ‘ZENOL’:tn OR ‘ZOLBEN’:tn  AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR  misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp  OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 21/368   'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   2. Hydrochlorothiazide   ‘HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’ OR ‘HYDROCHLORTHIAZIDE’ OR ‘HYDROCHLOROTHIAZID’ OR  ‘IDROCLOROTIAZIDE’ OR ‘HIDROKLOROTIAZID’ OR ‘HYDROKLORTIAZID’ OR ‘HYDROKLOROTIAZID’ OR  ‘HIDROKLOROTIAZID’ OR ‘HIDROKLOROTIAZIDA’ OR ‘HYDROCHLOROTIAZIDU’ OR  ‘HYDROCHLÓROTIAZID’ OR ‘HYDROCHLOROTIAZID’ OR ‘HIDROCLOROTIAZIDĂ’ OR  ‘HIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’ OR ‘HYDROCHLOROTIAZYD’ OR ‘HYDROCHLOROTIAZYDU’ OR  ‘HYDROCHLOROTHIAZYD’ OR ‘HYDROKLORTIAZID’ OR ‘HYDROCHLOORTHIAZIDE’ OR  ‘HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’ OR ‘HIDROHLORTIAZĪDS’ OR ‘HIDROHLORTIAZĪDA’ OR  ‘HIDROCHLOROTIAZIDO’ OR ‘HIDROCHLOROTIAZIDAS’ OR ‘HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDUM’ OR  ‘IDROCLOROTIAZIDE’ OR ‘HIDROKLÓRTIAZID’ OR ‘HÝDRÓKLÓRTÍAZÍÐ’ OR ‘HIDROKLOROTIAZID’ OR  ‘HIDROKLÓRTIAZID’ OR ‘HIDROKLOROTIAZID’ OR ‘HIDROKLOROTIAZIDA’ OR ‘HIDREACHLÓROTISÉID’  OR ‘HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’ OR ‘HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’ OR ‘HYDROKLOORITIATSIDIA’ OR  ‘HYDROKLOORITIATSIDI’ OR ‘HÜDROKLOROTIASIIDI’ OR ‘HÜDROKLOROTIASIID’ OR  ‘HIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’ OR ‘HIDROCHLOROTIAZIDA’ OR ‘HYDROCHLOROTHIAZID’ OR  ‘HYDROCHLORTHIAZID’ OR ‘HYDROCHLOROTHIAZID’ OR ‘HYDROCHLORTHIAZID’ OR  ‘HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDUM’ OR ‘HYDROCHLOROTHIAZID’ OR ‘HYDROCHLORTHIAZID’ OR ‘ACCUPRO  COMP’:tn OR ‘ACCURETIC’:tn OR ‘ACCUZIDE’:tn OR ‘ACEHEMMER’:tn OR ‘ACEDIUR’:tn OR ‘ACELISINO  COMP’:tn OR ‘ACEQUIDE’:tn OR ‘ACESISTEM’:tn OR ‘ACETENSIL PLUS’:tn OR ‘ACRUX PLUS’:tn OR  ‘ACTELSAR HCT’:tn OR ‘ACUILIX’:tn OR ‘ACURETIC’:tn OR ‘ACUZIDE’:tn OR ‘ADOCOMP’:tn OR  ‘ALDACTAZIDE’:tn OR ‘ALEA COMP’:tn OR ‘ALMERTAN’:tn OR ‘ALONEB’:tn OR ‘ALTEISDUO’:tn OR  ‘ALVASTRAN’:tn OR ‘AMELIOR PLUS HCT’:tn OR ‘AMERIDE’:tn OR ‘AMICOR H’:tn OR ‘AMIGEN’:tn OR  ‘AMILCO’:tn OR ‘AMILOFERM’:tn OR ‘AMILORETIK’:tn OR ‘AMILORID’:tn OR ‘AMILORIDE COMP. CF’:tn  OR ‘AMILORIDE E HIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn OR ‘AMILORIDE HCL HYDROCHLOORTHIAZIDE’:tn OR  ‘AMILORIDE HCLHCTZ’:tn OR ‘AMILORIDE HYDROCHLORIDEHYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE TABLET’:tn OR  ‘AMILORIDE HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘AMILOSTAD’:tn OR ‘AMILOZID’:tn OR ‘AMPRIL HD’:tn  OR ‘AMPRIL HL’:tn OR ‘AMPRILAN H’:tn OR ‘AMPRILAN HD’:tn OR ‘AMPRILAN HL’:tn OR ‘ANATON’:tn  OR ‘ANCOZAN COMP’:tn OR ‘ANGIOSAN’:tn OR ‘APOCOMBILOS’:tn OR ‘ARABLOCKTANS’:tn OR  ‘ARALTER PLUS’:tn OR ‘ARIONEX COMBI’:tn OR ‘ARTERPRESS’:tn OR ‘ARUDEL’:tn OR ‘ASOLZID’:tn OR  ‘AVASART HCT’:tn OR ‘AVEDAR’:tn OR ‘AWALTEN’:tn OR ‘AXTIL PLUS’:tn OR ‘AXUDAN’:tn OR ‘AXUDAN  HCT’:tn OR ‘BALZAK PLUS’:tn OR ‘BARIPRIL DIU’:tn OR ‘BELFOR HCT’:tn OR ‘BELOCZOK COMP’:tn OR  ‘BELSAR PLUS’:tn OR ‘BENALAPRIL PLUS’:tn OR ‘BENAZEPLUS’:tn OR ‘BENAZEPRIL’:tn OR  ‘BENAZEPRILHYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘BENETOR COMP’:tn OR ‘BENETOR PLUS’:tn OR  ‘BERLIPRIL H’:tn OR ‘BETATURFA GAMMA’:tn OR ‘BIBLOC H’:tn OR ‘BICETIL’:tn OR ‘BIFENICO’:tn OR  ‘BIFRIL COMP’:tn OR ‘BIFRIL PLUS’:tn OR ‘BIFRIZIDE’:tn OR ‘BISOCOMBIMYL’:tn OR  ‘BISOCOMIBMYL’:tn OR ‘BISOGEN COMBI’:tn OR ‘BISOHEXAL PLUS’:tn OR ‘BISOLICH COMP’:tn OR  ‘BISOMYL COMBI’:tn OR ‘BISOPLUS’:tn OR ‘BISOPROHYDROCHLOR’:tn OR ‘BISOPROLOL’:tn OR  ‘BISOPROLOLHCT’:tn OR ‘BISOPROLOLHIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn OR  ‘BISOPROLOLHYDROCHLOROTHIAZID’:tn OR ‘BISOPROLOLHYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR  ‘BISOPROLOLFUMARAATHYDROCHLOORTHIAZIDE’:tn OR  ‘BISOPROLOLHEMIFUMARAATHYDROCHLOORTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘BISOPROLOLO E  IDROCLOROTIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘BISOPROMEDCOMBI’:tn OR ‘BISOSTAD PLUS’:tn OR ‘BLESSIN’:tn OR  ‘BLOPRESID’:tn OR ‘BLOPRESS’:tn OR ‘BRIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘BUMEFTYL’:tn OR ‘BYOL H’:tn OR ‘BYOL  HL’:tn OR ‘CANCOMBINO’:tn OR ‘CANDANZID’:tn OR ‘CANDEQ COMP.’:tn OR ‘CANDEA HCT’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 22/368   ‘CANDECARD’:tn OR ‘CANDECOMBI’:tn OR ‘CANDECOR COMP.’:tn OR ‘CANDEMOX COMP’:tn OR  ‘CANDEMYL COMBI’:tn OR ‘CANDEPRES HCT’:tn OR ‘CANDEPRESS COMP’:tn OR ‘CANDESARPLUS’:tn  OR ‘CANDESARSTAD COMP’:tn OR ‘CANDESARSTAD PLUS HCT’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTA PLUS DURA’:tn  OR ‘CANDESARTAN + HCT GENOPTIM’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTAN + HIDROCHLOROTIAZIDA’:tn OR  ‘CANDESARTAN + HIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTAN + HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR  ‘CANDESARTAN  HYDROKLORTIAZID’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTAN ABZ’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTAN CILEXETIL +  HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTAN CILEXETIL HCTZ’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTAN CILEXETIL  HYDROCHLOROTIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTAN CILEXETILHCTZ’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTAN  CILEXETILHCT’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTAN CILEXETILHYDROCHLOORTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTAN  COMP’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTAN COMP.’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTAN E IDROCLOROTIAZIDE’:tn OR  ‘CANDESARTAN HCT’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTAN HCT’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTAN HIDROCHLOROTIAZIDĂ’:tn  OR ‘CANDESARTAN HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTAN HYDROCHLOROTIAZIDE’:tn OR  ‘CANDESARTAN IDROCLOROTIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTAN’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTAN+HCTZ’:tn OR  ‘CANDESARTAN+HIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTANCOMP’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTANCOMP.’:tn  OR ‘CANDESARTANHC’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTANHCT’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTANHCT’:tn OR  ‘CANDESARTAN’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTANHCT’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTANHCTZ’:tn OR  ‘CANDESARTANHIDROCLOROTIAZIDA ALTER’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTANHYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR  ‘CANDESARTANHYDROCHLOROTIAZID’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTANHYDROCHLOROTIAZIDE’:tn OR  ‘CANDESARTANHYDROCHLORTHIAZID’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTANHYDROCHLORTHIAZIDE’:tn OR  ‘CANDESARTANHYDROKLORTIAZID’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTANCILEXETIL’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTANCILEXETIL  COMP.’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTANCILEXETIL HYDROCHLOORTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTANCILEXETIL  HYDROCHLOROTHIAZID’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTANCILEXETILHCT’:tn OR  ‘CANDESARTANCILEXETILHYDROCHLOORTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTANCILEXITIL CT’:tn OR  ‘CANDESARTÁN  HIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTÁN CILEXETILOHIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn  OR ‘CANDESARTÁN HIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTÁNHIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn OR  ‘CANDESARTÁNHIDROCLOROTIAZIDA ALTER’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTÁN  HIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn OR  ‘CANDESTAD COMP’:tn OR ‘CANDEXETIL COMP’:tn OR ‘CANDISIL’:tn OR ‘CANDIST PLUS’:tn OR  ‘CANDIVA COMP’:tn OR ‘CANDPRESS COMP’:tn OR ‘CANDÉSARTANHYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR  ‘CANOCOMBI’:tn OR ‘CANZENO HCT’:tn OR ‘CAPENON HCT’:tn OR ‘CAPOZIDE’:tn OR ‘CAPTEA’:tn OR  ‘CAPTHYDRO’:tn OR ‘CAPTO COMP’:tn OR ‘CAPTOBETA COMP’:tn OR ‘CAPTOGAMMA HCT’:tn OR  ‘CAPTOHEXAL COMP’:tn OR ‘CAPTOPRESS+H’:tn OR ‘CAPTOPRIL’:tn OR ‘CAPTOPRILHCT’:tn OR  ‘CAPTOPRILHCTZ’:tn OR ‘CAPTOPRILHIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn OR ‘CAPTOPRIL  HYDROCHLOORTIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘CAPTOPRILHCT’:tn OR ‘CAPTOPRILHCT’:tn OR  ‘CAPTOPRILHIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn OR ‘CAPTORHCT’:tn OR ‘CAPTOSPES+H’:tn OR ‘CAPTUR’:tn OR  ‘CARACE PLUS’:tn OR ‘CARDACE COMP’:tn OR ‘CARDACE FORTE’:tn OR ‘CARDACE PLUS’:tn OR  ‘CARDIFRIENDCO’:tn OR ‘CARDIMYL’:tn OR ‘CARSIPRIL’:tn OR ‘CARZAN HCT’:tn OR ‘CARZAP’:tn OR  ‘CATASART PLUS’:tn OR ‘CAZACOMBI’:tn OR ‘CHLORHYDRATE DAMILORIDE  HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘CIBADREX’:tn OR ‘CILAZAPRIL + HIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn OR  ‘CLASTINOL’:tn OR ‘CLORISIP’:tn OR ‘CO RABOLAN’:tn OR ‘CO VALSART’:tn OR ‘CO VALSART’:tn OR  ‘COACETAN’:tn OR ‘COAMILORIDE ’:tn OR ‘COAMILOZIDE’:tn OR ‘COAMILOZIDE; DELVAS’:tn OR  ‘COARBARTAN’:tn OR ‘COAVASSAN’:tn OR ‘COBERLIPRIL’:tn OR ‘COBESPRES’:tn OR  ‘COBISOPROLOL’:tn OR ‘COCANDESARTAN’:tn OR ‘COCAZAPROL’:tn OR ‘CODALZAD’:tn OR  ‘CODILATREND’:tn OR ‘CODIOVAN’:tn OR ‘CODIOVAN FORTE’:tn OR ‘CODIOVANE’:tn OR  ‘CODIOVÁN’:tn OR ‘COENAC’:tn OR ‘COENALAPRIL’:tn OR ‘COIDELTAN’:tn OR ‘COINHIBACE’:tn OR  ‘COIRABEL’:tn OR ‘COIRBESSO’:tn OR ‘COLISINOMYL’:tn OR ‘COLISINOPRIL’:tn OR  ‘COLISINOSTAD’:tn OR ‘COLOSARTAN’:tn OR ‘COMEPRIL’:tn OR ‘CONEBILET’:tn OR ‘CONORTIVAN’:tn  OR ‘COOLIMESTRA’:tn OR ‘COQUINAPRIL’:tn OR ‘CORAMICOR’:tn OR ‘CORAMIPRIL’:tn OR  ‘CORENAPRIL’:tn OR ‘CORENISTAD’:tn OR ‘CORENITEC’:tn OR ‘COSARTOVAL’:tn OR ‘COTAREG’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 23/368   ‘COTELSART’:tn OR ‘COTENSIOL’:tn OR ‘COTRIAMTERZIDE’:tn OR ‘COVALMYLAN’:tn OR ‘COVALS’:tn  OR ‘COVALSACOR’:tn OR ‘COVALSART’:tn OR ‘COVALSARTAN’:tn OR ‘COVALSAX’:tn OR  ‘COVALSTOR’:tn OR ‘COVALTASYN’:tn OR ‘COVATAN’:tn OR ‘COZIDOCAPT’:tn OR ‘COABESART’:tn OR  ‘COALIMAX’:tn OR ‘COANHYVA’:tn OR ‘COAPROVEL’:tn OR ‘COBERSIGAL’:tn OR ‘COBESAR’:tn OR  ‘COBISOMYL’:tn OR ‘COCANDECOR’:tn OR ‘COCRISARTERS’:tn OR ‘CODIOVAN’:tn OR ‘CODIOVAN  FORTE’:tn OR ‘COERMIT’:tn OR ‘COKENZEN’:tn OR ‘COLOSAMYL’:tn OR ‘COMBISO’:tn OR ‘CONCOR  PLUS’:tn OR ‘CONDIUREN’:tn OR ‘CONEBILOX’:tn OR ‘CONVERIDE’:tn OR ‘COOLMETEC’:tn OR  ‘COPALIA HCT’:tn OR ‘CORABACECO’:tn OR ‘CORDACARE PLUS’:tn OR ‘CORDINATE PLUS’:tn OR  ‘CORIXIL’:tn OR ‘CORODIL COMP’:tn OR ‘CORVO HCT’:tn OR ‘CORYCARDON’:tn OR ‘COSAAR PLUS’:tn  OR ‘COSAMSON’:tn OR ‘COSARTAL PLUS’:tn OR ‘COTAREG’:tn OR ‘COTEOULA’:tn OR ‘COTEVETEN’:tn  OR ‘COTOVETOL’:tn OR ‘COTRIATEC’:tn OR ‘COTROVAL’:tn OR ‘COZAAR COMP’:tn OR ‘COZAAR  COMP.’:tn OR ‘COZAAR PLUS’:tn OR ‘COZATAN COMP’:tn OR ‘CO –ENALAPRIL’:tn OR ‘CRINORETIC’:tn  OR ‘DABONAL PLUS’:tn OR ‘DAFIRO HCT’:tn OR ‘DARAZÍÐ’:tn OR ‘DEHYDRATIN NEO’:tn OR ‘DELIX  PLUS’:tn OR ‘DIHYPRIL’:tn OR ‘DILABAR DIU’:tn OR ‘DILIS’:tn OR ‘DIOVAN COMP’:tn OR ‘DIOVAN  HCT’:tn OR ‘DIROTON PLUS H’:tn OR ‘DISALUNIL’:tn OR ‘DIU VENOSTASIN’:tn OR ‘DIURAMIN’:tn OR  ‘DIURAMIN MITE’:tn OR ‘DIUREN’:tn OR ‘DIURETIDIN’:tn OR ‘DIURETIKUM VERLA’:tn OR ‘DIURSAN’:tn  OR ‘DIUVAL 160 MG25 MG’:tn OR ‘DOCITEREN’:tn OR ‘DONEKA PLUS’:tn OR ‘DOSTUREL’:tn OR  ‘DRINE’:tn OR ‘DUACTAN HCT’:tn OR ‘DUOPRIL’:tn OR ‘DURADIURET’:tn OR ‘DYAZIDE’:tn OR ‘DYNORM  PLUS’:tn OR ‘DYTENZIDE’:tn OR ‘DYTIDE H’:tn OR ‘EBRIT HCT’:tn OR ‘ECADIU’:tn OR ‘ECAMAIS’:tn OR  ‘ECAZIDE’:tn OR ‘EDNYT HCT’:tn OR ‘ELEKTRA’:tn OR ‘ELESTAR HCT’:tn OR ‘EMCONCOR COMP’:tn OR  ‘EMCORETIC’:tn OR ‘EMESTAR PLUS’:tn OR ‘EMPIROL’:tn OR ‘ENAC PLUS’:tn OR ‘ENACECOR’:tn OR  ‘ENADURA PLUS’:tn OR ‘ENAHEXAL’:tn OR ‘ENAHYTON’:tn OR ‘ENALA COMP Q’:tn OR ‘ENALACOMP’:tn  OR ‘ENALAGAMMA HCT’:tn OR ‘ENALAPRIL + HIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn OR ‘ENALAPRIL +  IDROCLOROTIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘ENALAPRIL  HIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn OR ‘ENALAPRIL   HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘ENALAPRIL ARCANA’:tn OR ‘ENALAPRIL BASICS PLUS’:tn OR  ‘ENALAPRIL COMP’:tn OR ‘ENALAPRIL E IDROCLOROTIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘ENALAPRIL  HIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn OR ‘ENALAPRIL HYDROCHLORTHIAZID’:tn OR ‘ENALAPRIL  IDROCLOROTIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘ENALAPRIL MALEATE  HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE TABLETS’:tn OR  ‘ENALAPRIL MALEATE AND HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘ENALAPRIL MALEATEHCTZ’:tn OR  ‘ENALAPRIL MALEATEHYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘ENALAPRIL PLUS’:tn OR ‘ENALAPRIL’:tn OR  ‘ENALAPRILCT’:tn OR ‘ENALAPRILHYDROCHLORTHIAZID’:tn OR ‘ENALAPRILHCT TABLETTEN’:tn OR  ‘ENALAPRILHCT’:tn OR ‘ENALAPRILHIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn OR  ‘ENALAPRILHYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘ENALAPRILHYDROCHLOROTIAZIDE’:tn OR  ‘ENALAPRILHYDROCHLORTHIAZID’:tn OR ‘ENALAPRILIJEV MALEATHIDROKLOROTIAZID’:tn OR  ‘ENALAPRILMALEAAT HYDROCHLOORTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘ENAP H’:tn OR ‘ENAP H’:tn OR ‘ENAP HL’:tn OR  ‘ENAPH’:tn OR ‘ENAPHL’:tn OR ‘ENAPLUS’:tn OR ‘ENARENAL PLUS’:tn OR ‘ENEFIN’:tn OR ‘ENSOR’:tn  OR ‘ENTRIZENHCT’:tn OR ‘ENULID’:tn OR ‘EPRATENZ PLUS’:tn OR ‘EPROSARTAN MESILATEHCTZ’:tn  OR ‘EPROSARTAN’:tn OR ‘EPROSARTÁNHIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn OR ‘ESIDREX’:tn OR ‘ESIDRIX’:tn OR  ‘ESPARALOZ COMP’:tn OR ‘EXFORGE HCT’:tn OR ‘FAXIVEN’:tn OR ‘FEMIPRES PLUS’:tn OR ‘FEMPRESS  PLUS’:tn OR ‘FLUVASTATINE ’:tn OR ‘FOLGAN HCT’:tn OR ‘FORTZAAR’:tn OR ‘FORUS’:tn OR  ‘FORZAAR’:tn OR ‘FORZATENHCT’:tn OR ‘FOSICARD HCT’:tn OR ‘FOSICARD PLUS’:tn OR  ‘FOSICOMB’:tn OR ‘FOSICOMBI’:tn OR ‘FOSINO’:tn OR ‘FOSINOPRIL + HIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn OR  ‘FOSINOPRIL + HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘FOSINOPRIL’:tn OR ‘FOSINOPRIL E  IDROCLOROTIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘FOSINOPRIL HCT’:tn OR ‘FOSINOPRIL HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR  ‘FOSINOPRIL+HIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn OR ‘FOSINOPRILNATRIUMHCT’:tn OR ‘FOSINOPRILHCT’:tn OR  ‘FOSINOPRILHIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn OR ‘FOSINOPRILHIDROCLOROTIAZIDA ’:tn OR  ‘FOSINOPRILIDROCLOROTIAZIDE ’:tn OR ‘FOSINOPRILNATRIUMHYDROCHLOORTHIAZIDE’:tn OR  ‘FOSITEN PLUS’:tn OR ‘FOSITENS PLUS’:tn OR ‘FOZIRETIC’:tn OR ‘FUTURAN PLUS’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 24/368   ‘FYRONEXE’:tn OR ‘GEMOT’:tn OR ‘GENTIPRESS’:tn OR ‘GIOVAX PLUS H’:tn OR ‘GISARTAN’:tn OR  ‘HARTIL HCT’:tn OR ‘HARTILH’:tn OR ‘HCT’:tn OR ‘HCTGAMMA’:tn OR ‘HCTAD’:tn OR ‘HERZAPLUS’:tn  OR ‘HICLORAN’:tn OR ‘HICORTAL’:tn OR ‘HIDROSALURETIL’:tn OR ‘HILOS PLUS HCT’:tn OR  ‘HIPARA’:tn OR ‘HIPOARTEL PLUS’:tn OR ‘HIZAAR’:tn OR ‘HYDREX’:tn OR ‘HYDROKLORTIAZID  EVOLAN’:tn OR ‘HYDROMED’:tn OR ‘HYPODEHYDRA’:tn OR ‘HYPOLOC COMP’:tn OR ‘HYPOLOC HCT’:tn  OR ‘HYPOLOC PLUS’:tn OR ‘HYPOLOCPLUS’:tn OR ‘HYPORETIC’:tn OR ‘HYPOTHIAZID’:tn OR ‘HYPOZAR  FORTE’:tn OR ‘HYSADRAC’:tn OR ‘HYZAAR’:tn OR ‘IBESARTANHYDROCHLOORTHIAZIDE’:tn OR  ‘IDROQUARK’:tn OR ‘IFIRMACOMBI’:tn OR ‘INHIBACE’:tn OR ‘INHIBACE PLUS’:tn OR ‘INIBACE  PLUS’:tn OR ‘INITISS PLUS’:tn OR ‘INNOZIDE’:tn OR ‘INOCAR PLUS’:tn OR ‘INOVUM HCT’:tn OR  ‘IPERSART’:tn OR ‘IPERTON’:tn OR ‘IRBECELL HCT’:tn OR ‘IRBEGEN PLUS’:tn OR ‘IRBEPRESS PLUS’:tn  OR ‘IRBEPRESSHCT’:tn OR ‘IRBERSARTAN’:tn OR ‘IRBESARTANHCTZ ’:tn OR  ‘IRBESARTANHYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE ’:tn OR ‘IRBESARTANHCT’:tn OR  ‘IRBESARTANHIDROCHLOROTHIAZIDA’:tn OR ‘IRBESARTANHIDROCLOROTIAZIDĂ’:tn OR  ‘IRBESARTANHIDROKLOROTIAZID’:tn OR ‘IRBOTENS PLUS’:tn OR ‘IRPRESTAN HCT’:tn OR  ‘IRPREZIDE’:tn OR ‘IRUZID’:tn OR ‘ISOPTIN RR PLUS’:tn OR ‘IVREX’:tn OR ‘IXIA PLUS’:tn OR  ‘JANARTAN’:tn OR ‘JONINAMARIL’:tn OR ‘KALIJEV LOSARTANATHIDROKLOROTIAZID ’:tn OR  ‘KALIUMLOSARTAN HCTZ’:tn OR ‘KALIUMLOSARTAN+HCTZ BIOFARM’:tn OR ‘KALIUMLOSARTAN+HCTZ  LABALTER’:tn OR ‘KALIUMLOSARTANHYDROCHLOORTHIAZIDE FOCUS’:tn OR  ‘KALIUMLOSARTANHYDROCHLOORTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘KALIUMLOSARTANHYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn  OR ‘KALIUMLOSARTANHYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE KRKA’:tn OR ‘KALPRESS’:tn OR ‘KANDEPRES PLUS’:tn  OR ‘KANDESARTANAS HIDROCHLOROTIAZIDAS TORRENT’:tn OR ‘KANDROZID COMP’:tn OR  ‘KARBICOMBI’:tn OR ‘KARVEZIDE’:tn OR ‘KINAPRILHIDROKLOROTIAZID’:tn OR ‘KINASTAD COMP’:tn  OR ‘KINOPRILAM COMP’:tn OR ‘KINZALKOMB’:tn OR ‘KIPRISTAD COMP’:tn OR ‘KLUGEN’:tn OR  ‘KOИРБЕСАН’:tn OR ‘KONVERGE PLUS’:tn OR ‘KORDOBIS PLUS’:tn OR ‘KORETIC’:tn OR ‘KRINOLIS’:tn  OR ‘KRUPLUS’:tn OR ‘KYLOTAN PLUS H’:tn OR ‘LAAVENHD’:tn OR ‘LAAVENHL’:tn OR ‘LAKEA H’:tn OR  ‘LANNAPRIL PLUS’:tn OR ‘LANOSAR COMP’:tn OR ‘LARESIN PLUS’:tn OR ‘LAVESTRA H’:tn OR  ‘LAVESTRA HCT’:tn OR ‘LERIMAMED’:tn OR ‘LESAMOR’:tn OR ‘LIDALTRINDIU’:tn OR ‘LINATIL COMP’:tn  OR ‘LIRPALANE’:tn OR ‘LISIPUREN COMP’:tn OR ‘LISIBETA COMP’:tn OR ‘LISIDIGAL HCT’:tn OR  ‘LISIGAMMA’:tn OR ‘LISIHEXAL COMB’:tn OR ‘LISIHEXAL COMP’:tn OR ‘LISILICH’:tn OR  ‘LISINOCOMP’:tn OR ‘LISINOGEN COMBI’:tn OR ‘LISINOHYD’:tn OR ‘LISINOMYL COMP’:tn OR  ‘LISINOPLUS’:tn OR ‘LISINOPRIL’:tn ‘LISINOPRILHCTZ’:tn OR ‘LISINOPRILHYDROKLORTIAZID’:tn OR  ‘LISIPLUS’:tn OR ‘LISIPRIDE’:tn OR ‘LISIPRIL COMP.’:tn OR ‘LISIPROL HCT’:tn OR ‘LISODURA PLUS’:tn  OR ‘LISONID HCT’:tn OR ‘LISOPRESS HCT’:tn OR ‘LISOPRIL HCT’:tn OR ‘LISORETIC’:tn OR  ‘LISPRILHYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘LIZINOPRIL H’:tn OR ‘LIZINOPRILHIDROKLOROTHIAZID’:tn  OR ‘LOBEN PLUS’:tn OR ‘LOBIDIUR’:tn OR ‘LOBIRETIC’:tn OR ‘LOBIVON PLUS’:tn OR  ‘LOBIVONPLUS’:tn OR ‘LODOZ’:tn OR ‘LOGIKA’:tn OR ‘LOORTAN PLUS’:tn OR ‘LOPIRETIC’:tn OR  ‘LOPRESS COMP’:tn OR ‘LORADUR’:tn OR ‘LOREBLOK HCT’:tn OR ‘LORISTA H’:tn OR ‘LORISTA HD’:tn  OR ‘LORISTA HL’:tn OR ‘LOROTENS PLUS’:tn OR ‘LORTAAN PLUS’:tn OR ‘LORTAMED PLUS’:tn OR  ‘LORTAZIL PLUS’:tn OR ‘LORZAAR PLUS’:tn OR ‘LORZIDA’:tn OR ‘LORZITIN’:tn OR ‘LOSACOR HCT’:tn  OR ‘LOSALET PLUS’:tn OR ‘LOSAR PLUS’:tn OR ‘LOSARQ COMP’:tn OR ‘LOSARB PLUS’:tn OR  ‘LOSARBIO’:tn OR ‘LOSARCOMP’:tn OR ‘LOSARGAMMA HCT’:tn OR ‘LOSARHCT’:tn OR ‘LOSARPLUS’:tn  OR ‘LOSARSTAD COM’:tn OR ‘LOSARSTAD COMP’:tn OR ‘LOSARTAN’:tn OR ‘LOSARTAN +  HIDROCLOROTIAZIDA ALMUS’:tn OR ‘LOSARTAN + HIDROCLOROTIAZIDA ALTER’:tn OR ‘LOSARTAN +  HIDROCLOROTIAZIDA ATRAL’:tn OR ‘LOSARTAN COMP’:tn OR ‘LOSARTAN E IDROCHLOROTIAZIDE ’:tn  OR ‘LOSARTAN E IDROCLOROTIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘LOSARTAN HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE ALTER’:tn OR  ‘LOSARTAN HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘LOSARTAN IDROCLOROTIAZIDE ALMUS’:tn OR  ‘LOSARTAN IDROCLOROTIAZIDE ALTER’:tn OR ‘LOSARTAN IDROCLOROTIAZIDE ANGENERICO’:tn OR  ‘LOSARTAN PLUS’:tn OR ‘LOSARTAN POTASSIUM  HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE GROUP’:tn OR ‘LOSARTAN     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 25/368   POTASSIUM  HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘LOSARTAN POTASSIUM AND  HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘LOSARTAN POTASSIUM HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘LOSARTAN  POTASSIUMHCTZ PCH’:tn OR ‘LOSARTAN POTASSIUMHCTZ ’:tn OR ‘LOSARTAN POTASSIUMHCTZ ’:tn  OR ‘LOSARTAN POTASSIUM HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘LOSARTAN POTASSIUM  HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE RELONCHEM’:tn OR ‘LOSARTAN POTASSIUMHYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR  ‘LOSARTAN ’:tn OR ‘LOSARTAN+HCT’:tn OR ‘LOSARTAN+HIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn OR  ‘LOSARTAN+HIDROCLOROTIAZIDA ’:tn OR ‘LOSARTANHCT’:tn OR ‘LOSARTANKALIUM’:tn OR  ‘LOSARTANKALIUM COMP DURA’:tn OR ‘LOSARTANKALIUM HCTAD’:tn OR  ‘LOSARTANKALIUMHYDROCHLOROTHIAZID’:tn OR ‘LOSARTAN COMP.’:tn OR ‘LOSARTAN  HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE BOUCHARARECORDATI’:tn OR ‘LOSARTAN HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR  ‘LOSARTAN HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE ’:tn OR ‘LOSARTAN HYDROCHLOTHIAZIDE TABLETS’:tn OR  ‘LOSARTANHCT’:tn OR ‘LOSARTANHCT’:tn OR ‘LOSARTANHCT KRKA’:tn OR ‘LOSARTANHCT’:tn OR  ‘LOSARTANHCT’:tn OR ‘LOSARTANHCT’:tn OR ‘LOSARTANHCT’:tn OR ‘LOSARTANHCT’:tn OR  ‘LOSARTANHCTH JS PARTNER’:tn OR ‘LOSARTANHIDROCHLOROTHIAZIDA KRKA’:tn OR  ‘LOSARTANHIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn OR ‘LOSARTANHIDROKLOROTIAZID LEK’:tn OR  ‘LOSARTANHYDROCHLOROTHIAZID’:tn OR ‘LOSARTANHYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR  ‘LOSARTANHYDROCHLOROTIAZID’:tn OR ‘LOSARTANKALIUM  HYDROCHLOROTHIAZID’:tn OR  ‘LOSARTANKALIUM HYDROCHLOORTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘LOSARTANKALIUM HYDROCHLOORTHIAZIDE’:tn  OR ‘LOSARTANKALIUMHCT’:tn OR ‘LOSARTANKALIUMHCT’:tn OR ‘LOSARTANKALIUMHCT ’:tn OR  ‘LOSARTANKALIUMHYDROCHLOORTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘LOSARTANKALIUMHYDROCHLOORTHIAZIDE’:tn  OR ‘LOSARTANKALIUMHYDROCHLOORTHIAZIDE ’:tn OR ‘LOSARTANKALIUMHYDROCHLOROTHIAZID’:tn  OR ‘LOSARTANKALIUMHYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘LOSARTANKALIUMHYDROCHLORTHIAZID’:tn  OR ‘LOSARTANKALIUMHYDROCHLORTHIAZID’:tn OR ‘LOSARTANKALIUMHYDROCHLORTHIAZID ’:tn OR  ‘LOSARTIC PLUS’:tn OR ‘LOSARTÁNHIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn OR ‘LOSARTÁNHIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn  OR ‘LOSARTÁNHIDROCLOROTIAZIDA ALTER’:tn OR ‘LOSARTÁNHIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn OR  ‘LOSATHINA KOR’:tn OR ‘LOSATRIX COMP’:tn OR ‘LOSAZID’:tn OR ‘LOSAZIDE’:tn OR ‘LOSCOMB’:tn  OR ‘LOSRTAN COMP’:tn OR ‘LOTAN H’:tn OR ‘LOTANOS COMP’:tn OR ‘LOTENSIN HCT’:tn OR ‘LOZANEL  PLUS’:tn OR ‘LOZAP’:tn OR ‘LOZITAR’:tn OR ‘LUCIDEL PLUS’:tn OR ‘MALARTAN HCT’:tn OR  ‘MALIRETIAN’:tn OR ‘MARILAMED’:tn OR ‘MAROZID’:tn OR ‘MARPACE’:tn OR ‘MAXARTAN’:tn OR  ‘MAXSOTEN’:tn OR ‘MEDORAM PLUS H’:tn OR ‘MEDRAPRIL COMP’:tn OR ‘MENCORD PLUS’:tn OR  ‘MEPROLOL COMP.’:tn OR ‘MERAMYL HCT’:tn OR ‘MESAR PLUS’:tn OR ‘METODURA COMP’:tn OR  ‘METOPROLOL’:tn OR ‘METOPROLOLSUCCINAATHYDROCHLOORTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘METOSTAD COMP.’:tn  OR ‘MICARDISPLUS’:tn OR ‘MIDAVATZAR’:tn OR ‘MILOREX’:tn OR ‘MILORIDE’:tn OR ‘MIPROTAX’:tn OR  ‘MIRIL PLUS H 5 MG25 MG’:tn OR ‘MITEN PLUS’:tn OR ‘MODUCREN’:tn OR ‘MODUCRIN’:tn OR  ‘MODURET’:tn OR ‘MODURETIC’:tn OR ‘MOGILARTA’:tn OR ‘MONACE COMBI’:tn OR ‘MONOPRIL  PLUS’:tn OR ‘MONOTENS H’:tn OR ‘MONOZIDE’:tn OR ‘MOONVAL’:tn OR ‘MULTICLOP’:tn OR  ‘MYRLOSAR COMP’:tn OR ‘NALAPRES’:tn OR ‘NAVITEN COMBI’:tn OR ‘NAVIXEN PLUS’:tn OR ‘NEBILET  COMP’:tn OR ‘NEBILET HCT’:tn OR ‘NEBILET HCTZ’:tn OR ‘NEBILET PLUS’:tn OR ‘NEBILET PLUS H’:tn  OR ‘NEBIRETIC’:tn OR ‘NEBIVOLOL  HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE MENARINI INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS  LUXEMBOURG’:tn OR ‘NEBIZIDE’:tn OR ‘NEFRIX’:tn OR ‘NEOLOTAN PLUS’:tn OR ‘NEOPREX’:tn OR  ‘NEPHRAL’:tn OR ‘NISISCO’:tn OR ‘NOBIRETIC’:tn OR ‘NOBIZIDE’:tn OR ‘NOMEXOR PLUS HCT’:tn OR  ‘NORAQUIN’:tn OR ‘NORAZIDE 2,5MG +12,5MG COMPRESSE’:tn OR ‘NORAZIDE’:tn OR  ‘NORMOLOSEH’:tn OR ‘NORMORIX’:tn OR ‘NORTIVAN ’:tn OR ‘NOVIFORM’:tn OR ‘OLARTANPLUS’:tn OR  ‘OLECTAN’:tn OR ‘OLINAPRIL’:tn OR ‘OLMEGAN’:tn OR ‘OLMES PLUS’:tn OR ‘OLMESARTAN +  HIDROCLOROTIAZIDA ’:tn OR ‘OLMESARTAN MEDOXOMILHCTZ ’:tn OR ‘OLMESARTAN  MEDOXOMILHYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘OLMESARTAN MEDOXOMILHYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn  OR ‘OLMESARTAN MEDOXOMILHYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE ’:tn OR ‘OLMESARTANHCT’:tn OR  ‘OLMESARTANHCT’:tn OR ‘OLMESARTANHIDROCLOROTIAZIDA ’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 26/368   ‘OLMESARTANHYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘OLMESARTÁNHTCZ ’:tn OR ‘OLMESTA PLUS’:tn OR  ‘OLMETEC COMP’:tn OR ‘OLMETEC HCTZ’:tn OR ‘OLMETEC PLUS’:tn OR ‘OLMICOMBI’:tn OR  ‘OLPREZIDE’:tn OR ‘OLSAR PLUS’:tn OR ‘OMESAR PLUS’:tn OR ‘ONDOLEN FORTE’:tn OR ‘OPENVAS  PLUS’:tn OR ‘OPTIMON PLUS’:tn OR ‘ORIZAL PLUS’:tn OR ‘ORLOC COMP’:tn OR ‘OSAN PLUS’:tn OR  ‘OSAVER HCT’:tn OR ‘PARAPRES’:tn OR ‘PENOPRIL’:tn OR ‘PENTATEC’:tn OR ‘PIRAMIL H’:tn OR  ‘PIRAMIL HL’:tn OR ‘PIRAMIL PLUS’:tn OR ‘PLAUNAZIDE’:tn OR ‘POLSART PLUS’:tn OR ‘PORTIRON  HCT’:tn OR ‘PRECTIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘PRESARTAN H’:tn OR ‘PRESCANDEN’:tn OR ‘PRESCANDEN HCT’:tn  OR ‘PRESMIN COMBO’:tn OR ‘PRESSDOWN PLUS’:tn OR ‘PRESSITER’:tn OR ‘PRESTOLE’:tn OR  ‘PRILITARILHCT’:tn OR ‘PRINIVIL PLUS’:tn OR ‘PRINZIDE’:tn OR ‘PRITORPLUS’:tn OR  ‘PRODUCTSHORTNAMETST532’:tn OR ‘PROPRA. COMP.’:tn OR ‘PROTAL COMPLEX’:tn OR ‘PROVAS’:tn  OR ‘QUETIAPINA ’:tn OR ‘QUIMEA’:tn OR ‘QUINAPLUS’:tn OR ‘QUINAPRIL COMP’:tn OR ‘QUINAPRIL E  IDROCLOROTIAZIDE  GENERICS’:tn OR ‘QUINAPRIL HCLHCTZ ’:tn OR ‘QUINAPRIL  HCLHYDROCHLOORTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘QUINAPRIL HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE EG’:tn OR ‘QUINAPRIL  IDROCLOROTIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘QUINAPRIL IDROCLOROTIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘QUINAPRIL  IDROCLOROTIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘QUINAPRIL PLUS’:tn OR ‘QUINAPRIL+HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR  ‘QUINAPRILHCT HEXAL’:tn OR ‘QUINAPRIL’:tn OR ‘QUINAPRILHCT’:tn OR ‘QUINAPRILHCT CF’:tn OR  ‘QUINAPRILHCT ’:tn OR ‘QUINAPRILHIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn OR ‘QUINAPRILHIDROCLOROTIAZIDA  DAVUR’:tn OR ‘QUINAPRILHYDROCHLOORTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘QUINAPRILHYDROCHLOROTHIAZID’:tn OR  ‘QUINAPRILHYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘QUINAPRILIDROCLOROTIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘QUINAZIDE’:tn  OR ‘RAMACE PLUSZ’:tn OR ‘RAMIQ COMP’:tn OR ‘RAMICLAIR PLUS’:tn OR ‘RAMICOMP’:tn OR  ‘RAMICOMP MITE’:tn OR ‘RAMICOR COMB’:tn OR ‘RAMIGAMMA HCT’:tn OR ‘RAMIHEXAL COMP’:tn OR  ‘RAMILICH COMP’:tn OR ‘RAMILIFE HCT’:tn OR ‘RAMIMED HCT’:tn OR ‘RAMIPLUS’:tn OR ‘RAMIPLUS  AL’:tn OR ‘RAMIPRIL’:tn OR ‘RAMIPRIL+ HIDROCLOROTIAZIDA ’:tn OR ‘RAMIPRIL+HCT’:tn OR  ‘RAMIPRILCOMP CORAX’:tn OR ‘RAMIPRILHCT’:tn OR ‘RAMIPRILHCTZ ABZ’:tn OR ‘RAMIPRILHCTZ  CT’:tn OR ‘RAMIPRILHCTZ ’:tn OR ‘RAMIPRILHYDROCHLORTHIAZID’:tn OR ‘RAMIPRIL COMP’:tn OR  ‘RAMIPRILHCT’:tn OR ‘RAMIPRILHCTZ ’:tn OR ‘RAMIPRILHIDROCLOROTIAZIDA TECNIGEN’:tn OR  ‘RAMIPRILHYDROCHLORTHIAZID 1A FARMA’:tn OR ‘RAMIPRILHYDROCHLORTHIAZID HEXAL’:tn OR  ‘RAMIPRILHYDROCHLORTHIAZID ’:tn OR ‘RAMIPRILHYDROKLORTIAZID’:tn OR  ‘RAMIPRILHYDROKLORTIAZID HEXAL’:tn OR ‘RAMIWALDHCT’:tn OR ‘RAMZID’:tn OR ‘RANID’:tn OR  ‘RASILEZ HCT’:tn OR ‘RASOLTAN PLUS’:tn OR ‘RATIPRED’:tn OR ‘REGULATEN PLUS’:tn OR  ‘RENIDUR’:tn OR ‘RENIPRIL PLUS’:tn OR ‘RENITEC’:tn OR ‘RENITECMAX’:tn OR ‘RETURN’:tn OR  ‘REVIVAL PLUS’:tn OR ‘RHEFLUIN’:tn OR ‘RISEDRONATO  ITALIA’:tn OR ‘RIVACOR PLUS’:tn OR  ‘RIVACOR PLUS FORTE’:tn OR ‘ROMAZIDE’:tn OR ‘SANGONA’:tn OR ‘SANLUPER’:tn OR ‘SANORAL  HCT’:tn OR ‘SARTAFIN’:tn OR ‘SARTEN PLUS H’:tn OR ‘SARTENS PLUS’:tn OR ‘SAVOSAN’:tn OR  ‘SEBESYNPLUS’:tn OR ‘SECTRAZIDE’:tn OR ‘SELOCOMP ZOC’:tn OR ‘SELOKEN PLUS’:tn OR ‘SEVIKAR  COMP’:tn OR ‘SEVIKAR HCT’:tn OR ‘SEVIKAR PLUS’:tn OR ‘SEVIKARHCT’:tn OR ‘SEVITREX’:tn OR  ‘SILARDAF HCT’:tn OR ‘SILOSTAR  PLUS’:tn OR ‘SINERTEC’:tn OR ‘SINTANO’:tn OR ‘SINTONYN  COMBI’:tn OR ‘SKOPRYL HCT’:tn OR ‘SKOPRYL PLUS’:tn OR ‘SKOPRYL PLUS H’:tn OR ‘SONETAC’:tn OR  ‘SOPRAMYL’:tn OR ‘SORTABAX HCT’:tn OR ‘SPARKAL’:tn OR ‘SPIRIDAZIDE’:tn OR ‘SPIRONOLACTONE  HCTZ ’:tn OR ‘SPIRONOTHIAZID’:tn OR ‘STADACAND  PLUS’:tn OR ‘STADACAND PLUS’:tn OR  ‘STADAZAR HCT’:tn OR ‘SUPERACE’:tn OR ‘SUVARTAR H’:tn OR ‘SUVARTAR HCT’:tn OR ‘SYNERPRIL’:tn  OR ‘SYNURETIC’:tn OR ‘TACLOMISAR’:tn OR ‘TALMIRMAS’:tn OR ‘TANLOZID’:tn OR ‘TANYDON HCT’:tn  OR ‘TELMARK PLUS’:tn OR ‘TELMICARD PLUS HCT’:tn OR ‘TELMISARTAN’:tn OR ‘TELMISARTAN E  IDROCLOROTIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘TELMISARTAN HYDROCHLOROTIAZID’:tn OR ‘TELMISARTANHCT’:tn OR  ‘TELMISARTANHCTZ’:tn OR ‘TELMISARTAN HIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn OR ‘TELMISARTANHCT’:tn OR  ‘TELMISARTANHCT’:tn OR ‘TELMISARTANHCT’:tn OR ‘TELMISARTANHCTZ’:tn OR  ‘TELMISARTANHIDROCLOROTIAZIDĂ’:tn OR ‘TELMISARTANHIDROKLOROTIAZID’:tn OR  ‘TELMISARTANHYDROCHLOORTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘TELMISARTÁN HIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 27/368   ‘TELMIZEK COMBI’:tn OR ‘TELMOTENS PLUS’:tn OR ‘TEMERITDUO’:tn OR ‘TENSADIUR’:tn OR  ‘TENSART HCT’:tn OR ‘TENSIKEY COMPLEX’:tn OR ‘TENSIL’:tn OR ‘TENSIVOPRIL’:tn OR  ‘TENSOZIDE’:tn OR ‘TENZAR PLUS’:tn OR ‘TENZOPRIL HCT’:tn OR ‘TERVALON HCT’:tn OR ‘FOS’:tn OR  ‘VALTAN COMP.’:tn OR ‘TEVETEN’:tn OR ‘TEVETENS PLUS’:tn OR ‘TEXACAND HCT’:tn OR ‘TEZEO’:tn  OR ‘TIADEN’:tn OR ‘TIALORID’:tn OR ‘TIARTAN’:tn OR ‘TIAVASE’:tn OR  ‘TIMOLOLAMILORIDEHYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘TOLUCOMBI’:tn OR ‘TRI.THIAZID’:tn OR ‘TRIAM  TIAZIDA R’:tn OR ‘TRIAMPUR COMPOSITUM’:tn OR ‘TRIAMTEREN’:tn OR ‘TRIAMTERENHCT’:tn OR  ‘TRIAMTERENEHCTZ PCH’:tn OR ‘TRIAMTERENEHCTZ ’:tn OR ‘TRIARESE’:tn OR ‘TRIATEC  COMPOSTO’:tn OR ‘TRIATEC HCT’:tn OR ‘TRIATEC PLUS’:tn OR ‘TRISEVIKAR’:tn OR ‘TRITACE’:tn OR  ‘TRITACE COMB’:tn OR ‘TRITACE HCT’:tn OR ‘TRITACE PLUS’:tn OR ‘TRITAZIDE’:tn OR ‘TURFA  GAMMA’:tn OR ‘URESAN’:tn OR ‘VAL PLUS’:tn OR ‘VALBACOMP’:tn OR ‘VALCOMP’:tn OR ‘VALDONE’:tn  OR ‘VALIDROC’:tn OR ‘VALNORM H’:tn OR ‘VALPRESS COMP’:tn OR ‘VALPRESSOL PLUS’:tn OR  ‘VALSABEN PLUS’:tn OR ‘VALSABENE COMP’:tn OR ‘VALSACELL HCT’:tn OR ‘VALSACOMBI’:tn OR  ‘VALSACOR COMP.’:tn OR ‘VALSADEN’:tn OR ‘VALSARCOMP’:tn OR ‘VALSARGAMMA HCT’:tn OR  ‘VALSARSTAD COMP’:tn OR ‘VALSARTAN’:tn OR ‘VALSARTAN’:tn OR ‘VALSARTANHCT’:tn OR  ‘VALSARTANHCT’:tn OR ‘VALSARTANHCT SANOFIAVENTIS’:tn OR ‘VALSARTANHCT’:tn OR  ‘VALSARTANHCT’:tn OR ‘VALSARTANHCTZ’:tn OR ‘VALSARTANHCT’:tn OR  ‘VALSARTANHIDROKLOROTIAZID’:tn OR ‘VALSARTANHYDROCHLOORTHIAZIDE’:tn OR  ‘VALSARTANHYDROCHLOROTHIAZID’:tn OR ‘VALSARTANHYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR  ‘VALSARTANHYDROKLORTIAXID’:tn OR ‘VALSARTANHYDROKLORTIAZID’:tn OR  ‘VALSARTANHYDROKLORTIAZID’:tn OR ‘VALSARTANTLYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘VALSARTORE  COMP’:tn OR ‘VALSARTÁN  HIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn OR ‘VALSARTÁN HIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn OR  ‘VALSARTÁNHIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn OR ‘VALSAVIL HCT’:tn OR ‘VALSID’:tn OR ‘VALSOCARD HCT’:tn  OR ‘VALSODIUR’:tn OR ‘VALSOTENS HCT’:tn OR ‘VALSOTENS’:tn OR ‘VALTAN’:tn OR ‘VALTENSIN  PLUS’:tn OR ‘VALTENSION COMP.’:tn OR ‘VAL COMP.’:tn OR ‘VALTSU COMP’:tn OR ‘VALZAP COMBI’:tn  OR ‘VALZAP H’:tn OR ‘VALZAP HCT’:tn OR ‘VALZYDROC’:tn OR ‘VANATEX HCT’:tn OR ‘VANORTIC’:tn  OR ‘VARTISANPLUS’:tn OR ‘VASCACE PLUS’:tn OR ‘VASOPENTOL HCT’:tn OR ‘VERATIDE’:tn OR  ‘VILANTAL COMP’:tn OR ‘VITOZID’:tn OR ‘VIVACTRA PLUS’:tn OR ‘VIVENDAL COMP’:tn OR ‘VOCADO  HCT’:tn OR ‘VOTUM PLUS’:tn OR ‘WYTENS’:tn OR ‘XALEEC COMBI’:tn OR ‘XARTAN H’:tn OR ‘XARTAN  HCT’:tn OR ‘XARTAN HD’:tn OR ‘YARESAR’:tn OR ‘YLISAPRIL COMP.’:tn OR ‘ZAKODIAN PLUS’:tn OR  ‘ZANACODAR COMBI’:tn OR ‘ZANTIPRIDE’:tn OR ‘ZARAVAL’:tn OR ‘ZELVARTANCOMBO’:tn OR  ‘ZENCIL’:tn OR ‘ZEOTA HCT’:tn OR ‘ZESGER PLUS’:tn OR ‘ZIDEPRIL’:tn OR ‘ZIDOCO’:tn OR  ‘ZINADIUR’:tn OR ‘ZOFARIL  HCTZ’:tn OR ‘ZOFECARD PLUS’:tn OR ‘ZOFENICO’:tn OR ‘ZOFENIL  COMP’:tn OR ‘ZOFENIL DIU’:tn OR ‘ZOFENIL PLUS’:tn OR ‘ZOFENILDUO’:tn OR ‘ZOFEPRILPLUS’:tn OR  ‘ZOFIL HCTZ’:tn OR ‘ZOFISTAR HCT’:tn OR ‘ZOFISTAR PLUS’:tn OR ‘ZOKZID’:tn OR ‘ZOLNOR HCT’:tn  OR ‘ZOMEN PLUS’:tn OR ‘ZOPRANOL HCTZ’:tn OR ‘ZOPRANOL PLUS’:tn OR ‘ZOPRANOLPLUS’:tn OR  ‘ZOPRAZIDE’:tn OR ‘ZOZIDE’:tn OR ‘ABISART HCT’:tn OR ‘ACCURECTIC’:tn OR ‘ACCURETIC’:tn OR  ‘ACCUZIDE’:tn OR ‘ACEHEMMER COMP’:tn OR ‘ACECOMB’:tn OR ‘ACERCOMP’:tn OR ‘ACESISTEM’:tn OR  ‘ACUILIX’:tn OR ‘ACURETIC’:tn OR ‘ACUZIDE’:tn OR ‘ADCORETIC’:tn OR ‘ALDACTAZIDE’:tn OR  ‘ALMETECCO’:tn OR ‘ALTACE HCT’:tn OR ‘AMERIDE’:tn OR ‘AMIGEN’:tn OR ‘AMILORETIC’:tn OR  ‘AMILORETIK’:tn OR ‘AMILORIDHCT’:tn OR ‘AMILORIDE AND HYDRCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR  ‘AMILORIDEHYDROCHLOORTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘AMILOZID’:tn OR ‘AMILOZIDE’:tn OR ‘AMIZIDE’:tn OR  ‘AMPRIL HL’:tn OR ‘APOAMILZIDE’:tn OR ‘APOENALAPRIL MALEATEHCTZ’:tn OR ‘APOHYDRO’:tn OR  ‘APOLISINOPRILHCTZ’:tn OR ‘APROZIDE’:tn OR ‘ARACOR HCT’:tn OR ‘ARADOIS H’:tn OR ‘ATACAND  HCT’:tn OR ‘ATACAND PLUS’:tn OR ‘AVALIDE’:tn OR ‘AVAPRO HCT’:tn OR ‘BEHYD’:tn OR ‘BELOCZOK  COMP’:tn OR ‘BENAZEPLUS’:tn OR ‘BENICAR HCT’:tn OR ‘BERLIPRIL PLUS’:tn OR ‘BICONCOR’:tn OR  ‘BILOL COMP’:tn OR ‘BISOPROLOLHYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘BLOPRESID’:tn OR ‘BLOPRESS’:tn  OR ‘BRASART HCT’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTAN PLUS’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTANHCTZ APO’:tn OR ‘CAPOZIDE’:tn     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 28/368   OR ‘CAPTOPRILHCT AL’:tn OR ‘CAPTOPRILHYDROCHLOORTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘CIBADREX’:tn OR ‘CILARIL  PLUS’:tn OR ‘CILAZIL PLUS’:tn OR ‘CLORANA’:tn OR ‘CO RENITEC’:tn OR ‘COACEPRIL’:tn OR  ‘COAPROVEL’:tn OR ‘CODILATREND’:tn OR ‘CODIO COMBINATION’:tn OR ‘CODIO MD’:tn OR  ‘CODIOVAN’:tn OR ‘CODIOVAN FORTE’:tn OR ‘CODIOVANE’:tn OR ‘CODIOVÁN’:tn OR  ‘COENALAPRIL’:tn OR ‘COENATEC’:tn OR ‘COEPRIL’:tn OR ‘COIRBESARTAN’:tn OR ‘COLISINOPRIL’:tn  OR ‘COLOSARTAN’:tn OR ‘COMEPRIL’:tn OR ‘CORAMIPRIL’:tn OR ‘CORENITEC’:tn OR ‘CORENITEN’:tn  OR ‘COTAREG’:tn OR ‘COVALSARTAN’:tn OR ‘COVALTAN’:tn OR ‘COZARTAN’:tn OR ‘COZOMEVEK’:tn  OR ‘COAPROVEL’:tn OR ‘CODIOVAN’:tn OR ‘COKENZEN’:tn OR ‘COMILORID’:tn OR ‘CONCOR 10  PLUS’:tn OR ‘CONCOR HCT’:tn OR ‘CONCOR PLUS’:tn OR ‘COOLMETEC’:tn OR ‘CORODIL COMP’:tn OR  ‘CORUS H’:tn OR ‘COSAAR PLUS’:tn OR ‘COTAREG’:tn OR ‘COTRIATEC’:tn OR ‘COZAAR COMP’:tn OR  ‘COZAAR PLUS’:tn OR ‘DELIX PLUS’:tn OR ‘DICHLOTRIDE’:tn OR ‘DIOVAN COMP’:tn OR ‘DIOVAN D’:tn  OR ‘DIOVAN HCT’:tn OR ‘DIOVAN TRIPLO’:tn OR ‘DISOTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘DITHIAZIDE’:tn OR  ‘DIURETIKUM VERLA’:tn OR ‘DIURIX’:tn OR ‘DRENOL’:tn OR ‘DUTOPROL’:tn OR ‘DYAZIDE’:tn OR  ‘DYNORM PLUS’:tn OR ‘DYTENZIDE’:tn OR ‘DYTIDE H’:tn OR ‘ECARD’:tn OR ‘ECAZIDE’:tn OR  ‘ECODUREX’:tn OR ‘EKLIPS PLUS’:tn OR ‘ELEKTRA’:tn OR ‘ELIDIUR’:tn OR ‘EMCORETIC’:tn OR  ‘ENAFRIL’:tn OR ‘ENAHEXAL’:tn OR ‘ENALAPRIL + HIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn OR ‘ENALAPRIL COMP’:tn  OR ‘ENALAPRIL HCT’:tn OR ‘ENALAPRILHCT ’:tn OR ‘ENALAPRILMALEAATHYDROCHLOORTHIAZIDE’:tn  OR ‘ENAP H’:tn OR ‘ENAP HL’:tn OR ‘ENAP N’:tn OR ‘ENAPCO’:tn OR ‘ENAPH’:tn OR ‘ENAPHL’:tn OR  ‘ENAPLUS’:tn OR ‘ESIDREX’:tn OR ‘ESIDRIX’:tn OR ‘EXFORGE HCT’:tn OR ‘FORTZAAR’:tn OR  ‘FORZAAR’:tn OR ‘FOSICOMB’:tn OR ‘FOSICOMP’:tn OR ‘FOSINOPRIL COMP’:tn OR ‘FOSINOPRIL  HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘FOZIRETIC’:tn OR ‘GLIOTENZIDE’:tn OR ‘HCT’:tn OR ‘HCTCT’:tn OR  ‘HCTGAMMA’:tn OR ‘HCTISIS’:tn OR ‘HCTZ’:tn OR ‘HEXAZIDE’:tn OR ‘HIDRENOX A’:tn OR  ‘HIDROMED’:tn OR ‘HIPERSAR PLUS’:tn OR ‘HIZAAR’:tn OR ‘HYDRCHLOORTHIAZIDE’:tn OR  ‘HYDRENE’:tn OR ‘HYDREX’:tn OR ‘HYDRO’:tn OR ‘HYDROCHLOORTHIAZIDE’:tn OR  ‘HYDROCHLOROTHIAZID’:tn OR ‘HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDUM’:tn OR ‘HYDRODIURIL’:tn OR  ‘HYDROMED’:tn OR ‘HYPOTHIAZID’:tn OR ‘HYTACAND’:tn OR ‘HYZAAR’:tn OR ‘INHIBACE PLUS’:tn OR  ‘INIBACE PLUS’:tn OR ‘IRBESARTAN + HIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn OR ‘IRBESARTAN HCT’:tn OR  ‘IRBESARTAN HCTZ’:tn OR ‘IRUZID’:tn OR ‘KARVEZIDE’:tn OR ‘KINZALKOMB’:tn OR ‘KINZALPLUS’:tn  OR ‘KSART HCT’:tn OR ‘LIPRAZIDUM’:tn OR ‘LISINOPRIL COMP’:tn OR ‘LISINOPRIL HCT’:tn OR  ‘LISINOPRILHCT’:tn OR ‘LISINOPRILHIDROCLOROTIAZIDA’:tn OR  ‘LISINOPRILHYDROCHLOORTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘LISIPRIL COMP’:tn OR ‘LISITRIL COMP.’:tn OR  ‘LISORETIC’:tn OR ‘LIZINOPRIL H’:tn OR ‘LODESTAR ZID’:tn OR ‘LODOZ’:tn OR ‘LOPRESSOR HCT’:tn  OR ‘LORISTA H’:tn OR ‘LORISTA HD’:tn OR ‘LORSAR HCT’:tn OR ‘LORZAAR PLUS’:tn OR ‘LOSACOR  D’:tn OR ‘LOSARDEX PLUS’:tn OR ‘LOSARTAN PLUS’:tn OR ‘LOSARTAN POTASSIUM AND  HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘LOSARTAN POTASSIUMHYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR  ‘LOSARTANHCT’:tn OR ‘LOSARTANMEPHA PLUS’:tn OR ‘LOSARTANHYDROCHLOROTHIAZID’:tn OR  ‘LOSAZID’:tn OR ‘LOTAN PLUS’:tn OR ‘LOTENSIN HCT’:tn OR ‘LOTRIAL D’:tn OR ‘MAXZIDE’:tn OR  ‘MAXZIDE25 MG’:tn OR ‘METOPROLOL COMP.’:tn OR ‘MICARDIS HCT’:tn OR ‘MICARDIS PLUS’:tn OR  ‘MICARDISPLUS’:tn OR ‘MICOMBI’:tn OR ‘MICOMBI AP’:tn OR ‘MICOMBI COMBINATION TABLETS  AP’:tn OR ‘MICROZIDE’:tn OR ‘MILORIDE’:tn OR ‘MODUCREN’:tn OR ‘MODURET’:tn OR  ‘MODURETIC’:tn OR ‘MODURETIK’:tn OR ‘MONOPLUS’:tn OR ‘MONOPRIL HCT’:tn OR ‘MONOPRIL  PLUS’:tn OR ‘MONOZIDE’:tn OR ‘NAPRIX D’:tn OR ‘NEBILET PLUS’:tn OR ‘NEFRIX’:tn OR ‘NEOLOTAN  PLUS’:tn OR ‘NEWTOLIDE’:tn OR ‘NISISCO’:tn OR ‘NOVAMILOR’:tn OR ‘NUAMILZIDE’:tn OR  ‘NUTRIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘OCSAAR PLUS’:tn OR ‘OLMETEC COMP’:tn OR ‘OLMETEC HCT’:tn OR ‘OLMETEC  HCTZ’:tn OR ‘OLMETEC PLUS’:tn OR ‘PEMZEK PLUS’:tn OR ‘PMSHYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR  ‘PREMINENT’:tn OR ‘PRES PLUS’:tn OR ‘PRILENAP H’:tn OR ‘PRINZIDE’:tn OR ‘PRITORPLUS’:tn OR  ‘PROTRIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘QUINAPRILHYDROCHLOORTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘QUINARETIC’:tn OR  ‘RAMIPRILHCTZ PMS’:tn OR ‘RAMIPRILHYDROCHLOORTHIAZIDE’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 29/368   ‘RAMIPRILHYDROCHLORTHIAZID’:tn OR ‘RANID’:tn OR ‘RASILEZ HCT’:tn OR ‘RENACOR’:tn OR  ‘RENEZIDE’:tn OR ‘RENIPRIL HT’:tn OR ‘RENITEN PLUS’:tn OR ‘RHEFLUIN’:tn OR ‘RHEFLUIN MITE’:tn  OR ‘RIDAQ’:tn OR ‘RILACE PLUS’:tn OR ‘RISICORDIN’:tn OR ‘ROFUCAL’:tn OR ‘SELOKOMB’:tn OR  ‘SELOPRESS ZOK’:tn OR ‘SEVIKAR HCT’:tn OR ‘SKOPRYL PLUS’:tn OR ‘SPARKAL’:tn OR  ‘SPIRONOTHIAZID’:tn OR ‘TAREGD’:tn OR ‘TEKTURNA HCT’:tn OR ‘TENSART HCT’:tn OR  ‘HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘SPIRONOLACTONEHCTZ’:tn OR ‘TRIAMTERENEHCTZ’:tn OR  ‘TEVETEN’:tn OR ‘TEVETENS PLUS’:tn OR ‘TIALORID’:tn OR ‘TRIAM TIAZIDA R’:tn OR ‘TRIAMIZIDE’:tn  OR ‘TRIAMPUR COMPOSITUM’:tn OR ‘TRIAMTEREENHYDROCHLOORTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘TRIAMTERENHCT  AL’:tn OR ‘TRIAMTERENE AND HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘TRIAMTERENE’:tn OR ‘TRIAMTERIL’:tn  OR ‘TRIATEC COMP’:tn OR ‘TRIATEC D’:tn OR ‘TRIATEC HCT’:tn OR ‘TRIATEC PLUS’:tn OR  ‘TRIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘TRITACE COMB’:tn OR ‘TRITACE COMP’:tn OR ‘TRITACE HCT’:tn OR ‘TRITACE  PLUS’:tn OR ‘TRITAZIDE’:tn OR ‘UNIRETIC’:tn OR ‘URAZIDE’:tn OR ‘UROZIDE’:tn OR ‘VALSACOMBI’:tn  OR ‘VALSARTAN AND HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘VALSARTAN COMP’:tn OR ‘VALSARTAN HCT’:tn  OR ‘VALSARTAN+HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘VALSARTANHCT’:tn OR ‘VALTAN’:tn OR ‘VALTRIAN  HCT’:tn OR ‘VASCACE PLUS’:tn OR ‘VASCASE PLUS’:tn OR ‘VASCORD’:tn OR ‘VASERETIC’:tn OR  ‘VASOPRIL PLUS’:tn OR ‘VASORETIC’:tn OR ‘VEDILOL’:tn OR ‘VOTUM PLUS’:tn OR ‘WYTENS’:tn OR  ‘ZBEC’:tn OR ‘ZESTORETIC’:tn OR ‘ZESTORETIC MITE’:tn OR ‘ZIAC’:tn OR ‘ZIAK’:tn AND ('adverse  drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR  'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   3. Ibuprofen   ‘IBUPROFEN’ OR ‘IBUPROFENA’ OR ‘IBUPROFENUM’ OR ‘IBUPROFÉN’ OR ‘IBUPROFEN’ OR  ‘IBUPROFENO’ OR ‘IBUPROFEN’ OR ‘IBUPROFENU’ OR ‘IBUPROFEN’ OR ‘IBUPROFEN’ OR ‘IBUPROFĒNA’  OR ‘IBUPROFĒNS’ OR ‘IBUPROFENO’ OR ‘IBUPROFENAS’ OR ‘IBUPROFENUM’ OR ‘IBUPROFENE’ OR  ‘IBUPROFEN’ OR ‘IBUPROFÉN’ OR ‘IBUPROFEN’ OR ‘IBUPROFÈNE’ OR ‘IBUPROFEENI’ OR ‘IBUPROFEEN’  OR ‘IBUPROFEENI’:tn OR ‘IBUPROFENUM’:tn OR ‘IBUPROFEN’:tn OR ‘ABFEN’:tn OR ‘ACATAR  ZATOKI’:tn OR ‘ACTIPROFEN’:tn OR ‘ADAGIN’:tn OR ‘ADOLORIN IBUFORTE’:tn OR ‘ADVEL’:tn OR  ‘ADVIL’:tn OR ‘ADVILMONO LIQUIDCAPS’:tn OR ‘ADVILCAPS’:tn OR ‘ADVILEFF’:tn OR ‘ADVILGEL’:tn  OR ‘ADVILMED’:tn OR ‘ADVILTAB’:tn OR ‘AKTREN’:tn OR ‘AKTREN MOBIL’:tn OR ‘AKTREN SPEZIAL’:tn  OR ‘ALBERT HEIJN IBUPROFEN’:tn OR ‘ALGIASDIN’:tn OR ‘ALGIFENE’:tn OR ‘ALGIN BABY’:tn OR  ‘ALGOFLEX’:tn OR ‘ALGOFLEXM’:tn OR ‘ALGOFREN’:tn OR ‘ALINDRIN’:tn OR ‘ALVOFEN EXPRESS’:tn OR  ‘ANADIN IBUPROFEN’:tn OR ‘ANADIN JOINT PAIN’:tn OR ‘ANADIN LIQUIFAST’:tn OR ‘ANADIN  ULTRA’:tn OR ‘ANCO’:tn OR ‘ANTALFEBAL BAMBINI’:tn OR ‘ANTALGIL’:tn OR ‘ANTARENE’:tn OR ‘APFEN  PLUS’:tn OR ‘APIROFENO’:tn OR ‘APOIBUPROFEN’:tn OR ‘ARAGEL’:tn OR ‘ARDINEX’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 30/368   ‘ARTICALM’:tn OR ‘ATRISCAL’:tn OR ‘AZODERMOL’:tn OR ‘BENATIA BAMBINI’:tn OR ‘BENEAS FEBBRE  E DOLORE BAMBINI GUSTO ARANCIA SENZA ZUCCHERO’:tn OR ‘BENEAS FEBBRE E DOLORE BAMBINI  GUSTO FRAGOLA SENZA ZUCCHERO’:tn OR ‘BERLISTAR FORTE’:tn OR ‘BEXISTAR’:tn OR ‘BIOFEN’:tn  OR ‘BISOLFREN’:tn OR ‘BLOKMAX LADY’:tn OR ‘BONIFEN’:tn OR ‘BOOTS’:tn OR ‘BRUFEDOL’:tn OR  ‘BRUFEN’:tn OR ‘BRUMARE’:tn OR ‘BRUPRO’:tn OR ‘BUFENIK’:tn OR ‘BULFAN’:tn OR ‘BUPLEX’:tn OR  ‘BUPROPHAR’:tn OR ‘BURANA’:tn OR ‘BURANAC’:tn OR ‘BURANACAPS’:tn OR ‘BURANAPORE’:tn OR  ‘BUSCAFEM’:tn OR ‘BUSCOFEM’:tn OR ‘BUSCOFEN’:tn OR ‘BUSCOFENACT’:tn OR ‘BUSKOFEM’:tn OR  ‘BUTIFEN’:tn OR ‘C1000 IBUPROFEN’:tn OR ‘CALMINE’:tn OR ‘CALPROFEN’:tn OR ‘CARE IBUPROFEN’:tn  OR ‘CARE IBUPROFEN FOR CHILDREN THORNTON & ROSS LTD’:tn OR ‘CIBALGINA DUE FAST’:tn OR  ‘CIBALGINAFOR’:tn OR ‘CLIPTOL’:tn OR ‘CLIXGELMRP’:tn OR ‘COLD & FLU RELIEF’:tn OR ‘CRIFENE’:tn  OR ‘CUFEN’:tn OR ‘CUPROFEN’:tn OR ‘DADOSEL’:tn OR ‘DALSY’:tn OR ‘DEEP RELIEF’:tn OR  ‘DELTARAN’:tn OR ‘DENTOGEN’:tn OR ‘DEXIBUPROFEN’:tn OR ‘DILTIX’:tn OR ‘DIMIDON’:tn OR  ‘DISMENOL’:tn OR ‘DIVERIN’:tn OR ‘DOCTRIL’:tn OR ‘DOCTRIL FORTE BLISTER’:tn OR ‘DOLENCAR’:tn  OR ‘DOLGIT’:tn OR ‘DOLIBLOC’:tn OR ‘DOLIPROKID BAMBINI GUSTO ARANCIA SENZA ZUCCHERO’:tn  OR ‘DOLIPROKID BAMBINI GUSTO FRAGOLA SENZA ZUCCHERO’:tn OR ‘DOLOCYL’:tn OR  ‘DOLOFAST’:tn OR ‘DOLOFORT’:tn OR ‘DOLOMAGON’:tn OR ‘DOLOMATE’:tn OR ‘DOLORMIN’:tn OR  ‘DOLTRA’:tn OR ‘DU SAINT BERNARD’:tn OR ‘EASOFEN’:tn OR ‘EBUFAC’:tn OR ‘EDENIL’:tn OR  ‘EPSILON’:tn OR ‘ERGIX DOULEUR ET FIEVRE’:tn OR ‘ESPIDIDOL’:tn OR ‘ESPIDIFEN’:tn OR  ‘ESPRENIT’:tn OR ‘EUMED’:tn OR ‘EUDORLIN’:tn OR ‘EXTRA STRENGTH’:tn OR ‘EXTRALGIN’:tn OR  ‘EXTRAPAN’:tn OR ‘FASPIC’:tn OR ‘FENBID’:tn OR ‘FENEXTRA’:tn OR ‘FENKID’:tn OR ‘FENOPINE’:tn OR  ‘FENPAED’:tn OR ‘FENPIC’:tn OR ‘FEPER’:tn OR ‘FERENS’:tn OR ‘FEVRALT BAMBINI’:tn OR  ‘FIBRAFLEX’:tn OR ‘FIDIPROFEN’:tn OR ‘FIDIPROFEN FLU’:tn OR ‘FLARIN’:tn OR ‘FLEXIGEL’:tn OR  ‘FLUIBRON FEBBRE E DOLORE BAMBINI GUSTO ARANCIA SENZA ZUCCHERO’:tn OR ‘FLUIBRON  FEBBRE E DOLORE BAMBINI GUSTO FRAGOLA SENZA ZUCCHERO’:tn OR ‘FORSIUM’:tn OR  ‘FRENIDOR’:tn OR ‘GALPHARM IBUPROFEN, TAYLORS IBUPROFEN’:tn OR ‘GELIB’:tn OR  ‘GELOBUFÉN’:tn OR ‘GELOFENO’:tn OR ‘GELUFENE’:tn OR ‘GINEFLOR’:tn OR ‘GINENORM’:tn OR  ‘GYNONEURALGIN’:tn OR ‘HEMAGENE TAILLEUR’:tn OR ‘IBURON’:tn OR ‘IBACUT’:tn OR ‘IBALGIN’:tn  OR ‘IBU’:tn OR ‘IBUDENT’:tn OR ‘IBUHEMOPHARM’:tn OR ‘IBULYSIN ABZ’:tn OR ‘IBULYSIN’:tn OR  ‘IBULYSINHEXAL’:tn OR ‘IBU’:tn OR ‘IBUBEL’:tn OR ‘IBUBETA’:tn OR ‘IBUCALM’:tn OR ‘IBUCAPS’:tn OR  ‘IBUDEX’:tn OR ‘IBUDOLOR’:tn OR ‘IBUFARMALID’:tn OR ‘IBUFEN’:tn OR ‘IBUFETUM’:tn OR  ‘IBUFLAM’:tn OR ‘IBUFLUX’:tn OR ‘IBUGEL’:tn OR ‘IBUGESIC’:tn OR ‘IBUHEXAL’:tn OR ‘IBUKERN’:tn  OR ‘IBUKEY’:tn OR ‘IBUKLAPH’:tn OR ‘IBULAIN’:tn OR ‘IBULAR’:tn OR ‘IBULEK’:tn OR ‘IBULEVE  MAXIMUM STRENGTH’:tn OR ‘IBULEVE SPEED RELIEF’:tn OR ‘IBULEVE SPEED RELIEF MAX  STRENGTH’:tn OR ‘IBULEVEIBULEVE SPORTS’:tn OR ‘IBUM’:tn OR ‘IBUMAC’:tn OR ‘IBUMAX’:tn OR  ‘IBUMETIN’:tn OR ‘IBUMOUSSE’:tn OR ‘IBUMYL RAPID’:tn OR ‘IBUNEX’:tn OR ‘IBUNIN’:tn OR  ‘IBUPAR’:tn OR ‘IBUPAS’:tn OR ‘IBUPHAR’:tn OR ‘IBUPROFEMME’:tn OR ‘IBUPROFEN’:tn OR  ‘IBUPROFEN, APSIFEN’:tn OR ‘IBUPROFEN, APSIFENF’:tn OR ‘IBUPROFENCT’:tn OR ‘IBUPROFEN’:tn OR  ‘IBUPROFENCLORHIDRAT DE FENILEFRINĂ ZENTIVA’:tn OR ‘IBUPROFENCODEINE PHOSPHATE  ROCKSPRING’:tn OR ‘IBUPROFENPSEUDOEPHEDRINE HCL PFIZER’:tn OR  ‘IBUPROFENPSZEUDOEFEDRIN’:tn OR ‘IBUPROFEN; APSIFENF’:tn OR ‘IBUPROFENE’:tn OR  ‘IBUPROFENO’:tn OR ‘IBUPROFENO (ARGININA)’:tn OR ‘IBUPROFENO’:tn OR ‘IBUPROFĒNS LMP’:tn OR  ‘IBUPROM’:tn OR ‘IBUPROM, VAIKAMS’:tn OR ‘IBUPROX’:tn OR ‘IBURAPID’:tn OR ‘IBURION’:tn OR  ‘IBUSAL’:tn OR ‘IBUSAN’:tn OR ‘IBUSOFT’:tn OR ‘IBUSPRAY’:tn OR ‘IBUSTAR’:tn OR ‘IBUSTAR,  VAIKAMS’:tn OR ‘IBUSUSTAD’:tn OR ‘IBUTABS’:tn OR ‘IBUTAD’:tn OR ‘IBUTOP’:tn OR ‘IBUTREN’:tn OR  ‘IBUX’:tn OR ‘IBUXIN’:tn OR ‘IBUZIN’:tn OR ‘IDYL IBUPROFEN LIQUID CAPS SDG FARMA’:tn OR ‘IDYL  IBUPROFEN SDG FARMA’:tn OR ‘IFENI’:tn OR ‘IFENIN’:tn OR ‘IMBUN’:tn OR ‘INFLANOR’:tn OR  ‘INTRALGIS’:tn OR ‘IPREN’:tn OR ‘IPROFENEX’:tn OR ‘IRFEN’:tn OR ‘JENAPROFEN’:tn OR ‘JUNIFEN’:tn  OR ‘JUNIPRO SABOR FRESA’:tn OR ‘JUNIPRO SABOR NARANJA’:tn OR ‘KENDO’:tn OR ‘KIDOFEN’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 31/368   ‘KIFEN’:tn OR ‘KRUIDVAT IBUPROFEN’:tn OR ‘LAROFEN’:tn OR ‘LASONIL ANTIDOLORE’:tn OR  ‘LASYNAC’:tn OR ‘LEIDAPHARM IBUPROFEN’:tn OR ‘LEVEDOL’:tn OR ‘LEVIFEN BAMBINI GUSTO  ARANCIA SENZA ZUCCHERO’:tn OR ‘LIBROFEM’:tn OR ‘LIDERFEME’:tn OR ‘LIDERFEN’:tn OR  ‘MALAFENE’:tn OR ‘MANDAFEN FOR CHILDREN’:tn OR ‘MEDIVICKS’:tn OR ‘MELFEN’:tn OR ‘MENSOTON  GEGEN REGELSCHMERZEN’:tn OR ‘METAFEN FORTE’:tn OR ‘METAFEN ZATOKI’:tn OR ‘MIG’:tn OR  ‘MIGRAFEN’:tn OR ‘MIGRAINE RELIEF’:tn OR ‘MIRALGIN’:tn OR ‘MODAFEN’:tn OR ‘MOMENFLOGO’:tn  OR ‘MOMENT’:tn OR ‘MOMENTACT’:tn OR ‘MOMENTKID BAMBINI’:tn OR ‘MOMENTKID PRIMA  INFANZIA’:tn OR ‘MONACTIL’:tn OR ‘MORRISONS’:tn OR ‘MOTRIN’:tn OR ‘MOVONE’:tn OR  ‘MUCOGRIP’:tn OR ‘NEDAC SORBO IBUPROFEN’:tn OR ‘NEOBRUFEN’:tn OR ‘NEOFEN’:tn OR  ‘NEURALGIN EXTRA’:tn OR ‘NORMODOL’:tn OR ‘NOVALGIDOL’:tn OR ‘NOVOGENT’:tn OR ‘NUMARKS  MAXIMUM STRENGTH’:tn OR ‘NUREFLEX’:tn OR ‘NURODON’:tn OR ‘NUROFEN’:tn OR ‘NUROFEN FOR  CHILDREN’:tn OR ‘NUROFEN FORTE’:tn OR ‘NUROFEN FÜR KINDER’:tn OR ‘NUROFENBABY’:tn OR  ‘NUROFENCAPS’:tn OR ‘NUROFENELLE’:tn OR ‘NUROFENFEM’:tn OR ‘NUROFENFLASH’:tn OR  ‘NUROFENIMMEDIA’:tn OR ‘NUROFENJUNIOR’:tn OR ‘NUROFENPRO’:tn OR ‘NUROFENTABS’:tn OR  ‘NUROFLASH’:tn OR ‘NUROFLEX’:tn OR ‘NUROSOLV’:tn OR ‘NUROSOLV LIMONE’:tn OR ‘NUROSOLV  MENTA’:tn OR ‘OTC CONCEPTS’:tn OR ‘OXOLAMINA’:tn OR ‘OZONOL’:tn OR ‘PPHOR PERIOD PAIN’:tn  OR ‘PADUDEN’:tn OR ‘PAIDOFEBRIL’:tn OR ‘PAINCARE’:tn OR ‘PANACTIV’:tn OR ‘PANAFEN’:tn OR  ‘PEDEA’:tn OR ‘PEDIPROFEN’:tn OR ‘PERDOCEPHALE’:tn OR ‘PERDOCEPHALEX’:tn OR  ‘PERDOFEMINA’:tn OR ‘PERDOPHEN’:tn OR ‘PERDOTENSIO’:tn OR ‘PERMULCENS’:tn OR ‘PEROFEN’:tn  OR ‘PFEIL FORTE’:tn OR ‘PFEIL ZAHNSCHMERZ FORTE’:tn OR ‘PHOR BACKACHE’:tn OR ‘PHOR  MIGRAINE’:tn OR ‘PHORPAIN’:tn OR ‘PHORPAIN MAXIMUM STRENGTH’:tn OR ‘PIREXIN’:tn OR  ‘POINDOL’:tn OR ‘PROVIN’:tn OR ‘RADIAN B IBUPROFEN GEL’:tn OR ‘RAPIDOL S’:tn OR  ‘RAPIDOPHEN’:tn OR ‘RATIODOL’:tn OR ‘RATIODOLOR’:tn OR ‘RELEVAN’:tn OR ‘REUPROFEN’:tn OR  ‘RHINADVIL RHUME’:tn OR ‘RHINADVILTAB’:tn OR ‘RHINATHIOL’:tn OR ‘RHINORELIEF’:tn OR  ‘RHINUREFLEX’:tn OR ‘RINAFEN ZATOKI’:tn OR ‘ROBICOLD’:tn OR ‘ROBISINUS & CONGESTION  RELIEF’:tn OR ‘ROFIXDOL FEBBRE E DOLORE’:tn OR ‘RUFAN’:tn OR ‘RUPAN’:tn OR ‘SAETIL’:tn OR  ‘SAKITOL’:tn OR ‘SALVARINA’:tn OR ‘SARIDON N’:tn OR ‘SCHMERZDOLGIT’:tn OR  ‘SCHMERZTABLETTEN’:tn OR ‘SECLODIN’:tn OR ‘SERACTIL’:tn OR ‘SERACTIV’:tn OR ‘SINIFEV’:tn OR  ‘SODIUM IBUPROFEN’:tn OR ‘SOLEVE SUNBURN RELIEF’:tn OR ‘SOLPAFLEX’:tn OR ‘SOLPAFLEX  CUPROFEN PLUS SOLPADEINE MIGRAINE’:tn OR ‘SOLVIUM’:tn OR ‘SPALT EFFEKT’:tn OR ‘SPALT  FORTE’:tn OR ‘SPALT KOPFSCHMERZ’:tn OR ‘SPALT MIGRÄNE’:tn OR ‘SPALT MOBIL’:tn OR  ‘SPEDIFEN’:tn OR ‘SPIDIDOL’:tn OR ‘SPIDIFEN’:tn OR ‘SPIFEN’:tn OR ‘SPRALGY’:tn OR ‘SUBITENE’:tn  OR ‘SUDAFED SINUS PRESSURE & PAIN’:tn OR ‘SUSPIB’:tn OR ‘SYAFEN’:tn OR ‘TESCOS MAXIMUM  STRENGTH’:tn OR ‘ COLD RELIEF’:tn OR ‘THOMAPRODOL’:tn OR ‘THOMAPYRIN TENSION’:tn OR  ‘TISPOL IBUDD’:tn OR ‘TODALGIL’:tn OR ‘TOMIBU’:tn OR ‘TRADIL’:tn OR ‘TRAUMADOLGIT’:tn OR  ‘TREKPLEISTER IBUPROFEN’:tn OR ‘TRICALMA’:tn OR ‘TRIFENE’:tn OR ‘TUSSAMAG’:tn OR  ‘TVINGESTIN’:tn OR ‘UNICHEM’:tn OR ‘UNODOL’:tn OR ‘UPFEN’:tn OR ‘UROFEN DLA DZIECI JUNIOR  POMARAŃCZOWY’:tn OR ‘VEGETALLUMINA ANTIDOLORE’:tn OR ‘VIAMAL FEBBRE E DOLORE’:tn OR  ‘WICK DUOGRIPPAL’:tn OR ‘WILKO’:tn OR ‘ZAFEN’:tn OR ‘ZIPADOL’:tn OR ‘ÍBÚFEN’:tn OR ‘ACT3’:tn  OR ‘ACTIPROFEN’:tn OR ‘ACTRON (IBUPROFENO)’:tn OR ‘ADEX’:tn OR ‘ADVIL CS’:tn OR ‘ADVIL EXTRA  STRENGTH’:tn OR ‘ADVIL FORTE’:tn OR ‘ADVIL LIQUIGEL’:tn OR ‘ADVIL LIQUIGEL’:tn OR ‘ADVIL  MAX’:tn OR ‘ADVIL MIGRAINE’:tn OR ‘ADVIL MUSCLE AND JOINT’:tn OR ‘ADVIL PEDIATRIC’:tn OR  ‘ADVILGEL’:tn OR ‘AFEBRIL’:tn OR ‘AKTREN’:tn OR ‘ALGIFOR’:tn OR ‘ALGIFORL FORTE’:tn OR  ‘ALIVIUM’:tn OR ‘ARDINEX’:tn OR ‘ARTOFEN’:tn OR ‘BETAGESIC’:tn OR ‘BROFEN’:tn OR ‘BRUFEN’:tn  OR ‘BURANA’:tn OR ‘BUSCAFEM’:tn OR ‘BUSCOFEM’:tn OR ‘CALDOLOR’:tn OR ‘CHILDRENS MOTRIN’:tn  OR ‘CHILDRENS ADVIL’:tn OR ‘CHILDRENS IBUPROFEN’:tn OR ‘CHILDRENS MOTRIN’:tn OR  ‘CHILDRENS ADVIL COLD’:tn OR ‘CHILDRENS MOTRIN BERRY’:tn OR ‘CHILDRENS MOTRIN  BUBBLEGUM’:tn OR ‘CHILDRENS MOTRIN GRAPE’:tn OR ‘CONCENTRATED MOTRIN INFANTS’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 32/368   ‘DALSY’:tn OR ‘DEEP RELIEF’:tn OR ‘DEXOPTIFEN’:tn OR ‘DIMIDON’:tn OR ‘DISMENOL’:tn OR  ‘DOLGIT’:tn OR ‘DOLOSPEDIFEN’:tn OR ‘DOLOBENE’:tn OR ‘DOLOCYL’:tn OR ‘DOLOFAST’:tn OR  ‘DRISTAN SINUS’:tn OR ‘DURAIBU’:tn OR ‘ECOPROFEN’:tn OR ‘EPSILON’:tn OR ‘EQUALINE’:tn OR  ‘EVEA’:tn OR ‘FASPIC’:tn OR ‘FENBID’:tn OR ‘GREFEN’:tn OR ‘IBROFEN’:tn OR ‘IBU’:tn OR ‘IBUFEN’:tn  OR ‘IBUGEL’:tn OR ‘IBUGESIC’:tn OR ‘IBUHEXAL’:tn OR ‘IBUMAX’:tn OR ‘IBUPIRAC’:tn OR  ‘IBUPROFEN’:tn OR ‘IBUPROFENPSEUDOEPHEDRINE HYDROCHLORIDE’:tn OR ‘IBUPROFENE’:tn OR  ‘IBUPROFENO’:tn OR ‘IBUPROX’:tn OR ‘IMBUN’:tn OR ‘INFANTS MOTRIN’:tn OR ‘INZA’:tn OR ‘IRFEN’:tn  OR ‘IRFEN600’:tn OR ‘JUNIFEN’:tn OR ‘JUNIOR STRENGTH ADVIL’:tn OR ‘LANDELUN’:tn OR  ‘MEDICOL’:tn OR ‘MEDIPREN’:tn OR ‘MIG’:tn OR ‘MOTRIN’:tn OR ‘NOVALFEM’:tn OR ‘NOVOPROFEN’:tn  OR ‘NUREFLEX’:tn OR ‘NUROFEN’:tn OR ‘NUROFEN FOR CHILDREN’:tn OR ‘NUROFEN FORTE’:tn OR  ‘OPTALIDON’:tn OR ‘OPTIFEN’:tn OR ‘PANAFEN’:tn OR ‘PEDEA’:tn OR ‘PROFEN’:tn OR ‘PROFINAL’:tn  OR ‘PRORIS’:tn OR ‘RAFEN’:tn OR ‘SARIDON N’:tn OR ‘SERACTIL’:tn OR ‘SOLUFEN’:tn OR  ‘SPEDIFEN’:tn OR ‘SPIDIFEN’:tn OR ‘SPIDUFEN’:tn OR ‘SUPRAFEN’:tn OR ‘TABALON’:tn OR  ‘TRIFENE’:tn OR ‘UNIPRON’:tn OR ‘UPFEN’:tn OR ‘VENOFEN’:tn OR ‘ZAFEN’:tn OR ‘ZOFEN’:tn AND  ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti  OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   4. Omeprazole   ‘OMEPRAZOLE’ OR ‘OMEPRAZOLO’ OR ‘OMEPRAZOLUM’ OR ‘OMEPRAZOL’ OR ‘OMEPRAZOLUM’ OR  ‘OMEPRAZOLS’ OR ‘OMEPRAZOLAS’ OR ‘OMEPRAZOLUM’ OR ‘OMEPRAZOLO’ OR ‘OIMEIPREASÓL’ OR  ‘OMÉPRAZOLE’ OR ‘OMEPRATSOLI’ OR ‘OMEPRASOOLI’ OR ‘OMEPRASOOL’ OR ‘OMEPRAZOLUM’ OR  ‘ACID REFLUX’:tn OR ‘ACIDCARE’:tn OR ‘ACIDOZOL’:tn OR ‘AGASTIN’:tn OR ‘ALBOSAN’:tn OR  ‘ALEVIOR’:tn OR ‘ANADIR’:tn OR ‘ANTRA’:tn OR ‘APOOME’:tn OR ‘ARAPRIDE’:tn OR ‘AULCER’:tn OR  ‘AXORID’:tn OR ‘BELIFAX’:tn OR ‘BELMAZOL’:tn OR ‘BENZOL’:tn OR ‘BIOSAN’:tn OR ‘BLUNACYR’:tn OR  ‘BUSCOGAST’:tn OR ‘CEPRANDAL’:tn OR ‘CLETUS’:tn OR ‘COMOPRAZOL’:tn OR ‘DAGES’:tn OR  ‘DICLODUO COMBI’:tn OR ‘DICLOFENAC  OMEPRAZOLE’:tn OR ‘DICLOPRAM’:tn OR ‘DIOMPRAZ’:tn OR  ‘EFROZIN’:tn OR ‘ELIBACTIN’:tn OR ‘ELKOMED’:tn OR ‘ELKOSTOP’:tn OR ‘ELKOTHERAN’:tn OR  ‘ENERGOPRAZOL’:tn OR ‘ESELAN’:tn OR ‘ESOMEPRAZOLE MAGNESIUM + ACETYLSALICYLIC ACID  ASTRAZENECA’:tn OR ‘ESOPRAZ’:tn OR ‘FLUSAL’:tn OR ‘GASEC’:tn OR ‘GASTROCID’:tn OR  ‘GASTROSTAD’:tn OR ‘GERTALGIN’:tn OR ‘GERXUS’:tn OR ‘GLAVERAL’:tn OR ‘GOPRAZOL’:tn OR  ‘HEARTBURN RELIEF’:tn OR ‘HELICID’:tn OR ‘HELICOMP’:tn OR ‘HELIGEN’:tn OR ‘IBIMEZOLO’:tn OR  ‘IPEGEN’:tn OR ‘KEITHON’:tn OR ‘KOMEZOL’:tn OR ‘KRUXAGON’:tn OR ‘LANEX’:tn OR ‘LENAR’:tn OR  ‘LEXIGOR’:tn OR ‘LIMNOS’:tn OR ‘LODREC’:tn OR ‘LOMAC’:tn OR ‘LOMEXT’:tn OR ‘LOMEZEC’:tn OR  ‘LOPRAZ’:tn OR ‘LOPROC’:tn OR ‘LORDIN’:tn OR ‘LOSAMEL’:tn OR ‘LOSEC’:tn OR ‘LOSECOSAN’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 33/368   ‘LOSEPINE’:tn OR ‘LOSEPRAZOL’:tn OR ‘LUDEA’:tn OR ‘LYOPRAZ’:tn OR ‘MAAGZUURREMMER  OMEPRAZOL HTP’:tn OR ‘MALORTIL’:tn OR ‘MARICRIO’:tn OR ‘MEDOPRAZOLE’:tn OR ‘MEPRADEC’:tn  OR ‘MEPRAL’:tn OR ‘MEPRAZ’:tn OR ‘MEPROLEN’:tn OR ‘MEZZOPRAM’:tn OR ‘MIOL’:tn OR  ‘MOPRALPRO’:tn OR ‘MOPRILIC’:tn OR ‘NANSEN’:tn OR ‘NOVEK EC’:tn OR ‘NOVOGAST’:tn OR  ‘NOZER’:tn OR ‘ODASOL’:tn OR ‘OMAPREN’:tn OR ‘OMAR MAX’:tn OR ‘OME TAD’:tn OR ‘OMEQ’:tn OR  ‘OMEBETA’:tn OR ‘OMEC’:tn OR ‘OMECAT’:tn OR ‘OMEDAR’:tn OR ‘OMEDIPROL’:tn OR ‘OMEGAMMA’:tn  OR ‘OMEHENNIG’:tn OR ‘OMEJET’:tn OR ‘OMELICH’:tn OR ‘OMELIND’:tn OR ‘OMELIX’:tn OR  ‘OMELOXAN’:tn OR ‘OMEOPRAZOLO DISTRIQUIMICA’:tn OR ‘OMEP’:tn OR ‘OMEPCID’:tn OR  ‘OMEPLIS’:tn OR ‘OMEPRA’:tn OR ‘OMEPRADEX’:tn OR ‘OMEPRALAN’:tn OR ‘OMEPRAZ BIO’:tn OR  ‘OMEPRAZEN’:tn OR ‘OMEPRAZOLCT’:tn OR ‘OMERAN’:tn OR ‘OMERANE’:tn OR ‘OMERAX’:tn OR  ‘OMESTAD’:tn OR ‘OMESTOM’:tn OR ‘OMETEM’:tn OR ‘OME’:tn OR ‘OMETON’:tn OR ‘OMETREMP’:tn OR  ‘OMEZ’:tn OR ‘OMEZALIN’:tn OR ‘OMEZOL’:tn OR ‘OMEZOLAN’:tn OR ‘OMEZOLMYL’:tn OR ‘OMKAP  BASICS’:tn OR ‘OMOLIN’:tn OR ‘OMONA’:tn OR ‘OMPRANYT’:tn OR ‘OMZATOL’:tn OR ‘ONPRELEN’:tn  OR ‘OPRAZ’:tn OR ‘OPRAZIUM’:tn OR ‘OPRAZOLE’:tn OR ‘ORTALOX’:tn OR ‘ORTANOL’:tn OR  ‘PALSER’:tn OR ‘PARIZAC’:tn OR ‘PENRAZOL’:tn OR ‘PEPCIDSMB’:tn OR ‘PEPTICUM’:tn OR  ‘PIASTPRAZOL’:tn OR ‘PIPACID’:tn OR ‘POLPRAZOL’:tn OR ‘PRAZENTOL’:tn OR ‘PRAZOL’:tn OR  ‘PRAZOLENE’:tn OR ‘PRAZOLIN’:tn OR ‘PRENOME’:tn OR ‘PROBITOR’:tn OR ‘PROCLOR’:tn OR  ‘PROGASTIM’:tn OR ‘PROTEC’:tn OR ‘PROTON’:tn OR ‘PUGRITEX’:tn OR ‘REMEPRAZOLE’:tn OR  ‘REMOSTAR’:tn OR ‘ROMEP’:tn OR ‘ROMISAN’:tn OR ‘RUKUZ’:tn OR ‘RYTHMOGASTRYL’:tn OR  ‘SEDACID’:tn OR ‘SIERAL’:tn OR ‘SOPRAL’:tn OR ‘SPEZATO’:tn OR ‘TARGET PLUS’:tn OR ‘TEPRAZ’:tn  OR ‘ZOL’:tn OR ‘TILOMEP’:tn OR ‘UFONITREN’:tn OR ‘ULCERAL’:tn OR ‘ULCESEP’:tn OR ‘ULCEZOL’:tn  OR ‘ULCID’:tn OR ‘ULCOPRIN’:tn OR ‘ULNOR’:tn OR ‘ULZOL’:tn OR ‘UNIPRAX’:tn OR ‘UQFAR’:tn OR  ‘UZOL’:tn OR ‘VAMAC’:tn OR ‘VENTAZOL’:tn OR ‘VERALOX’:tn OR ‘XANTRAZOL’:tn OR ‘ZANPROL’:tn OR  ‘ZAPROL’:tn OR ‘ZIMOR’:tn OR ‘ZOLANDIL’:tn OR ‘ZOLANTRAC’:tn OR ‘ZOLELCON’:tn OR  ‘ZOLLDENOL’:tn OR ‘ZOLMACH’:tn OR ‘ZOLVA’:tn OR ‘ACIMAX’:tn OR ‘ALBOZ’:tn OR ‘ALTOSEC’:tn OR  ‘ANTRA’:tn OR ‘ANTRA I.V.’:tn OR ‘ANTRA MUPS’:tn OR ‘ANTRA PRO’:tn OR ‘ANTRAMUPS’:tn OR  ‘APOOMEPRAZOLE’:tn OR ‘CEPRANDAL’:tn OR ‘DAGES’:tn OR ‘EMEPROTON’:tn OR ‘ENPRAL’:tn OR  ‘EQUATE OMEPRAZOLE’:tn OR ‘ESTOMEPE’:tn OR ‘GASEC’:tn OR ‘GASTEC’:tn OR ‘GASTRIMUT’:tn OR  ‘GASTRIUM’:tn OR ‘GASTROZOL’:tn OR ‘GENOPRAZOL’:tn OR ‘HELICID’:tn OR ‘INDURGAN’:tn OR  ‘INHIBITRON’:tn OR ‘IPP’:tn OR ‘KLACID HP7’:tn OR ‘LANEX’:tn OR ‘LOMAC’:tn OR ‘LOPRAZ’:tn OR  ‘LOSEC’:tn OR ‘LOSECA’:tn OR ‘MEDRAL’:tn OR ‘MEPRAL’:tn OR ‘MEPRAZOL’:tn OR ‘MIRACID’:tn OR  ‘MOPRAL’:tn OR ‘MOPRALPRO’:tn OR ‘OMEPRAZOLE’:tn OR ‘NORPRAMIN’:tn OR ‘OCID’:tn OR  ‘OMEQ’:tn OR ‘OMED’:tn OR ‘OMELON’:tn OR ‘OMEP’:tn OR ‘OMEPRA’:tn OR ‘OMEPRADEX’:tn OR  ‘OMEPRAL’:tn OR ‘OMEPRAX’:tn OR ‘OMEPRAZEN’:tn OR ‘OMEPRAZID’:tn OR ‘OMEPRAZOL NT’:tn OR  ‘OMEPRAZOLE’:tn OR ‘OMEPRAZOLO’:tn OR ‘OMEPRAZON’:tn OR ‘OMEPROL’:tn OR ‘OMEPROTEC’:tn  OR ‘OMEPROTON’:tn OR ‘OMEPTOROL’:tn OR ‘OMERAN’:tn OR ‘OMERAP’:tn OR ‘OMESEC’:tn OR  ‘OMETON’:tn OR ‘OMEZ’:tn OR ‘OMEZOL’:tn OR ‘OMEZOLAN’:tn OR ‘OMEZOLE’:tn OR ‘OMEZZOL’:tn OR  ‘OMICAP’:tn OR ‘OMITOX’:tn OR ‘OMPRANYT’:tn OR ‘OMZ’:tn OR ‘OPRAZOL’:tn OR ‘OPRAZOLE’:tn OR  ‘OVULANZE’:tn OR ‘OZMEP’:tn OR ‘PARIZAC’:tn OR ‘PEPRAZOL’:tn OR ‘PMSOMEPRAZOLE’:tn OR  ‘POLPRAZOL’:tn OR ‘PRATIPRAZOL’:tn OR ‘PRAZOL’:tn OR ‘PRILOSEC’:tn OR ‘PROBITOR’:tn OR  ‘PROSEC’:tn OR ‘PROSEK’:tn OR ‘PROTEC’:tn OR ‘PROTON’:tn OR ‘RAMEZOL’:tn OR  ‘RATIOOMEPRAZOLE’:tn OR ‘RISEK’:tn OR ‘ROMESEC’:tn OR ‘TRINSICA’:tn OR ‘ULCOZOL’:tn OR  ‘ULSEN’:tn OR ‘VICTRIX’:tn OR ‘ZANPROL’:tn OR ‘ZIMOR’:tn OR ‘ZOLTUM’:tn OR ‘ZOSEC’:tn  AND  ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti  OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 34/368   'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   5. Amlodipine   ‘AMLODIPINE’ OR ‘AMLODIPIN’ OR ‘AMLODIPÍN’ OR ‘AMLODIPINĂ’ OR ‘AMLODIPINA’ OR ‘AMLODYPINA’  OR ‘AMLODIPĪNA’ OR ‘AMLODIPĪNS’ OR ‘AMLODIPINAS’ OR ‘AMLODIPINUM’ OR ‘AMLODIPINA’ OR  ‘AMLÓDIPÍN’ OR ‘AMLODIPIINI’ OR ‘AMLODIPIINILE’ OR ‘AMLODIPINA’ OR ‘AMLODIPINO’ OR  ‘AMLODIPINUM’ OR ‘ABESYL’:tn OR ‘ABIS’:tn OR ‘ABREA’:tn OR ‘ACCEL’:tn OR ‘ACERYCAL’:tn OR  ‘ADIPINE’:tn OR ‘AFITEN’:tn OR ‘AGEN’:tn OR ‘ALDAN’:tn OR ‘ALDOSION’:tn OR ‘ALEA’:tn OR  ‘ALMACOR’:tn OR ‘ALMIDIS’:tn OR ‘ALMIRIN’:tn OR ‘ALNETA’:tn OR ‘ALOTENDIN’:tn OR ‘AMALORIS’:tn  OR ‘AMDIP’:tn OR ‘AMELIOR’:tn OR ‘AMESOS’:tn OR ‘AMILOPID 10 MG/CAP’:tn OR ‘AMILOPID  5MG/CAP’:tn OR ‘AMILOSTAD 5 MG’:tn OR ‘AMIODIPINE VITABALANS’:tn OR ‘AMIRAP’:tn OR ‘AML’:tn  OR ‘AMLATOR’:tn OR ‘AMLDOIPINO DAVURGAMA’:tn OR ‘AMLESSA’:tn OR ‘AMLEWEL’:tn OR ‘AMLID’:tn  OR ‘AMLIMODUL’:tn OR ‘AMLIST’:tn OR ‘AMLO’:tn OR ‘AMLOAT’:tn OR ‘AMLOBER’:tn OR  ‘AMLOBESILAT’:tn OR ‘AMLOBESYL’:tn OR ‘AMLOCARD’:tn OR ‘AMLOCLAIR’:tn OR ‘AMLOCOR’:tn OR  ‘AMLODE’:tn OR ‘AMLODIBENE’:tn OR ‘AMLODIGAMMA’:tn OR ‘AMLODIL’:tn OR ‘AMLODILAN’:tn OR  ‘AMLODIN’:tn OR ‘AMLODINOVA’:tn OR ‘AMLODIPIN(BESILAT)’:tn OR ‘AMLODIPIN/ATORVASTATIN’:tn  OR ‘AMLODIPIN/ATORVASTATIN KRKA’:tn OR ‘AMLODIPINA’:tn OR ‘AMLODIPINA/ATORVASTATINA  KRKA’:tn OR ‘AMLODIPINA/ATORVASTATINA’:tn OR ‘AMLODIPINBESILAT’:tn OR  ‘AMLODIPINE(BESILATE) CLONMEL’:tn OR ‘AMLODIPINE/ ATORVASTATIN KRKA’:tn OR  ‘AMLODIPINE/ATORVASTATIN KRKA’:tn OR ‘AMLODIPINE/ATORVASTATIN’:tn OR  ‘AMLODIPINE/ATORVASTATINE PFIZER’:tn OR ‘AMLODIPINI/ATORVASTATIN’:tn OR  ‘AMLODIPINO/ATORVASTATINA KRKA’:tn OR ‘AMLODIPINO/ATORVASTATINA SPI SPI’:tn OR  ‘AMLODIPINO/ATORVASTATINA’:tn OR ‘AMLODIPRESS’:tn OR ‘AMLODISTAD’:tn OR ‘AMLODNO’:tn OR  ‘AMLODPIN KRKA’:tn OR ‘AMLOGAL DIVULE’:tn OR ‘AMLOHEXAL’:tn OR ‘AMLOMYL’:tn OR  ‘AMLONOR’:tn OR ‘AMLOPEN’:tn OR ‘AMLOPHARM’:tn OR ‘AMLOPIN’:tn OR ‘AMLOPIN S’:tn OR  ‘AMLOPOL’:tn OR ‘AMLOPRESS’:tn OR ‘AMLOR’:tn OR ‘AMLORATIO’:tn OR ‘AMLORETIN’:tn OR  ‘AMLORINE’:tn OR ‘AMLOSILAT’:tn OR ‘AMLOSPES’:tn OR ‘AMLOSTAD’:tn OR ‘AMLOSTIN’:tn OR  ‘AMLOTAN’:tn OR ‘AMLOTENS’:tn OR ‘AMLOTERON’:tn OR ‘AMLOZEK’:tn OR ‘AMLÓ’:tn OR  ‘AMOBEMED’:tn OR ‘AMODIPAN’:tn OR ‘AMOLYTE’:tn OR ‘AMONEX’:tn OR ‘AMORIRO’:tn OR  ‘AMPARO’:tn OR ‘AMRAP’:tn OR ‘ANTACAL’:tn OR ‘AMLO’:tn OR ‘APRESTIUM’:tn OR ‘ARAINNO’:tn OR  ‘ARMIXXAM’:tn OR ‘ARPLEXAM’:tn OR ‘ASTON’:tn OR ‘ASTUCOR’:tn OR ‘ASTUDAL’:tn OR  ‘ATORCOMBO’:tn OR ‘ATORDAPIN’:tn OR ‘ATORVASTATIIN/AMLODIPIIN KRKA’:tn OR  ‘ATORVASTATIN/AMLODIPIN RICHTER’:tn OR ‘ATORVASTATIN/AMLODIPINE ’:tn OR ‘ATORVOX  PLUS’:tn OR ‘AVANOR PLUS’:tn OR ‘AWADIK’:tn OR ‘AXELER’:tn OR ‘AZILODIS’:tn OR ‘BALARM’:tn OR  ‘BALZAK’:tn OR ‘BARUDEN’:tn OR ‘BEATIL’:tn OR ‘BELFOR’:tn OR ‘BIGITAL’:tn OR ‘BIVIS’:tn OR  ‘CADUET’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTAN AMLODIPIN’:tn OR ‘CAPENON’:tn OR ‘CAPREZ’:tn OR ‘CARAMLO’:tn  OR ‘CARAMLO, (16 MG+10MG), TABLETKI’:tn OR ‘CARAMLO,’:tn OR ‘CARDAMLO’:tn OR  ‘CARDILOPIN’:tn OR ‘CARDIONOX’:tn OR ‘CO -AMLESSA’:tn OR ‘CO -DALNESSA’:tn OR ‘CO -    European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 35/368   PRESTARIUM’:tn OR ‘CONCOR AM’:tn OR ‘CONCOR AMLO’:tn OR ‘CONCOR COMBI’:tn OR  ‘CONCORAM’:tn OR ‘CONCORDINA’:tn OR ‘COPALIA’:tn OR ‘COVERAM’:tn OR ‘COVERCARD’:tn OR  ‘COVERDINE’:tn OR ‘COVERLAM’:tn OR ‘COVERSICAL’:tn OR ‘DAFIRO’:tn OR ‘DAFOR’:tn OR  ‘DALNECOMBI’:tn OR ‘DALNESSA’:tn OR ‘DALNEVA’:tn OR ‘DICARTIL’:tn OR ‘DIPINOSTICHT’:tn OR  ‘DIRONORM’:tn OR ‘DOLPINAZIM’:tn OR ‘DOREMIS’:tn OR ‘DRIME’:tn OR ‘DUACTAN’:tn OR  ‘DUOPRESSIL’:tn OR ‘DUORAMIX’:tn OR ‘DUOTENS’:tn OR ‘DUPLECOR’:tn OR ‘EGIRAMLON’:tn OR  ‘ELESTAR’:tn OR ‘EMLODIN’:tn OR ‘EVANGIO’:tn OR ‘EXFORGE’:tn OR ‘FERNASTIN’:tn OR  ‘FINAMLOX’:tn OR ‘FLODIL’:tn OR ‘FLUDEXAM’:tn OR ‘FLUTENSIF’:tn OR ‘FOLGAN’:tn OR  ‘FORZATEN’:tn OR ‘GIANT’:tn OR ‘HIPRES’:tn OR ‘ICOMB’:tn OR ‘IMPRIDA’:tn OR ‘INDIX PLUS’:tn OR  ‘INOVUM’:tn OR ‘ISTIN’:tn OR ‘ISTOLDE’:tn OR ‘KARPIN’:tn OR ‘KONVERGE’:tn OR ‘KRKA’:tn OR  ‘KRUDIPIN’:tn OR ‘LEVENOR KOMBI’:tn OR ‘LIDORAT’:tn OR ‘LISONORM’:tn OR ‘LIZAM’:tn OR  ‘LODIPIN’:tn OR ‘LOFRAL’:tn OR ‘LOPIN’:tn OR ‘LOSEDIN’:tn OR ‘MAKADIP’:tn OR ‘MILODIMYL’:tn OR  ‘MIXANVAL’:tn OR ‘NADEXAM’:tn OR ‘NADREXAM’:tn OR ‘NATAM’:tn OR ‘NATRIXAM’:tn OR ‘NOLVAC’:tn  OR ‘NORDEX’:tn OR ‘NORDIPIN’:tn OR ‘NORFAN’:tn OR ‘NORMODIN’:tn OR ‘NORMODIPINE’:tn OR  ‘NORMOPRESS’:tn OR ‘NORPREXANIL’:tn OR ‘NORVADIP’:tn OR ‘NORVALET’:tn OR ‘NORVAS’:tn OR  ‘NORVASC’:tn OR ‘OLECTAN’:tn OR ‘OLLIZTAB’:tn OR ‘OPIMOL’:tn OR ‘ORCAL NEO’:tn OR ‘ORIZAL’:tn  OR ‘PARLAM’:tn OR ‘PARLIPRIMA’:tn OR ‘PERAMLONORM’:tn OR ‘PERAM’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL +  AMLODIPINA KRKA’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL + AMLODIPINA ’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL /AMLODIPINE ’:tn OR  ‘PERINDOPRIL ARGININE / AMLODIPINE SERVIER’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL ARGININE -AMLODIPINE  BIOGARAN’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL ARGININE/ AMLODIPINE SERVIER’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL  ARGININE/AMLODIPINE’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL ARGININE/AMLODIPINE SERVIER’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL  E AMLODIPINA ’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL TERT -BUTYLAMINE/AMLODIPINE KRKA’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL  TERT-BUTYLAMINE/AMLODIPINE’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL TOSILAAT/AMLODIPINE ’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL  TOSILATE/AMLODIPINE ’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL/AMLODIPIN’:tn OR ‘PERODILAM’:tn OR ‘PIDOLEN’:tn OR  ‘PIRAMIL’:tn OR ‘PIRAMIL COMBI’:tn OR ‘PLUSVAL’:tn OR ‘PRECARDIN’:tn OR ‘PRESSAC’:tn OR  ‘PRESTALIA’:tn OR ‘PRESTANCE’:tn OR ‘PRESTERAM’:tn OR ‘PRESUCOMB’:tn OR ‘PRILEN -AM’:tn OR  ‘PRYLAR’:tn OR ‘RAMANTAL’:tn OR ‘RAMDACORDIA’:tn OR ‘RAMDACORIA’:tn OR ‘RAMELSO’:tn OR  ‘RAMIPRIL  PLUS AMLODIPIN’:tn OR ‘RAMIPRIL PLUS AMLODIPIN HEXAL’:tn OR  ‘RAMIPRIL/AMLODIPIN’:tn OR ‘RAMIPRIL/AMLODIPINA ADAMED’:tn OR ‘RAMIPRIL/AMLODIPINE’:tn OR  ‘RAMIZEK’:tn OR ‘RAMLET’:tn OR ‘RAMLON’:tn OR ‘RAMLORA’:tn OR ‘RAMOMARK’:tn OR  ‘RASILAMLO’:tn OR ‘REAPTAN’:tn OR ‘RECOTENS’:tn OR ‘SANORAL’:tn OR ‘SAVAL’:tn OR ‘SEVIKAR’:tn  OR ‘SINTONYN’:tn OR ‘SOBYCOMBI’:tn OR ‘SOMOZIG’:tn OR ‘STOBETIN’:tn OR ‘SUMILAR’:tn OR  ‘TENLORIS’:tn OR ‘TENOX’:tn OR ‘TENSILENE’:tn OR ‘TERTENS -AM’:tn OR ‘TERTENSAM’:tn OR  ‘TONANDA’:tn OR ‘TONARSSA’:tn OR ‘TONOTEC’:tn OR ‘TORELLA’:tn OR ‘TORVALIPIN PLUS’:tn OR  ‘TORVIMAN’:tn OR ‘TRIAMLO’:tn OR ‘TRIPLINOR’:tn OR ‘TRIPLIXAM’:tn OR ‘TWYNSTA’:tn OR  ‘VASCODIN’:tn OR ‘VAZOTAL’:tn OR ‘VIACORAM’:tn OR ‘VIDONORM’:tn OR ‘VIDOZOL’:tn OR  ‘VILPIN’:tn OR ‘VOCADO’:tn OR ‘XETER LISONORM KOMBI’:tn OR ‘ZABARTA 10 MG’:tn OR ‘ZABARTA 5  MG’:tn OR ‘ZAPRINEL A’:tn OR ‘ZARVALOR’:tn OR ‘ZAURIS’:tn OR ‘ZENICAMO’:tn OR ‘ZOLNOR’:tn OR  ‘ZOREM’:tn OR ‘ΑGGOVASK’:tn OR ‘ACTAPIN’:tn OR ‘AMCOR’:tn OR ‘AMDEPIN’:tn OR ‘AMKLINE’:tn OR  ‘AMLATE’:tn OR ‘AMLIBON’:tn OR ‘AMLO’:tn OR ‘AMLOBETA’:tn OR ‘AMLOC’:tn OR ‘AMLOCARD’:tn OR  ‘AMLOCOR’:tn OR ‘AMLOD’:tn OR ‘AMLODAC’:tn OR ‘AMLODEP’:tn OR ‘AMLODIBENE’:tn OR  ‘AMLODIL’:tn OR ‘AMLODIN’:tn OR ‘AMLODIPIN -CIMEX’:tn OR ‘AMLODIPIN -MEPHA’:tn OR ‘AMLODIPIN - ’:tn OR ‘AMLODIPINE -OD TOWA’:tn OR ‘AMLODIPINEBESILAAT’:tn OR ‘AMLODIPINO’:tn OR  ‘AMLODIS’:tn OR ‘AMLOGAL DIVULE’:tn OR ‘AMLONG’:tn OR ‘AMLOPEN’:tn OR ‘AMLOPIN’:tn OR  ‘AMLOPINE’:tn OR ‘AMLOPRES’:tn OR ‘AMLOPRESS’:tn OR ‘AMLOR’:tn OR ‘AMLOVAS’:tn OR  ‘AMLOVASC’:tn OR ‘AMLOW’:tn OR ‘AMLOZEK’:tn OR ‘AMTAS’:tn OR ‘ANLO’:tn OR ‘ANLODIBAL’:tn OR  ‘ASTUDAL’:tn OR ‘AZOR’:tn OR ‘AZOREN.’:tn OR ‘BI -PRESTARIUM’:tn OR ‘BICARTIAL’:tn OR ‘BRASART - BCC’:tn OR ‘CADUET’:tn OR ‘CALCHEK’:tn OR ‘CARDILOPIN’:tn OR ‘CARDISAN’:tn OR ‘CIPLAVASC’:tn     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 36/368   OR ‘CO AMLODIPINE’:tn OR ‘CONCORAM’:tn OR ‘CORVADIL’:tn OR ‘CORVEX’:tn OR ‘COVASC’:tn OR  ‘COVERAM’:tn OR ‘DAFIRO’:tn OR ‘DIOVAN AMLO’:tn OR ‘EXFORGE’:tn OR ‘FLODIL’:tn OR ‘ISTIN’:tn  OR ‘JUVALID’:tn OR ‘LISONORM’:tn OR ‘LODIPIN’:tn OR ‘LOMANOR’:tn OR ‘MEDIPIN’:tn OR ‘MICARDIS  AMLO’:tn OR ‘NAPRIX A’:tn OR ‘NICORD’:tn OR ‘NIPIDOL’:tn OR ‘NORDIP’:tn OR ‘NORMODIPIN’:tn OR  ‘NORMODIPINE’:tn OR ‘NORVAGEN’:tn OR ‘NORVAPINE’:tn OR ‘NORVAS’:tn OR ‘NORVASC’:tn OR  ‘NORVASK’:tn OR ‘OLMETECANLO’:tn OR ‘OZLODIP’:tn OR ‘PELMEC’:tn OR ‘PERIVASC’:tn OR ‘PMS - AMLODIPINE’:tn OR ‘PRESSAC’:tn OR ‘PRESSAT’:tn OR ‘PRESTANCE’:tn OR ‘RAN -AMLODIPINE’:tn OR  ‘RECOTENS’:tn OR ‘ROXFLAN’:tn OR ‘SEVIKAR’:tn OR ‘STAMLO’:tn OR ‘TEKAMLO’:tn OR ‘TENOX’:tn OR  ‘TENSALIV’:tn OR ‘TENSIVASK’:tn OR ‘TERLOC’:tn OR ‘ -AMLODIPINE’:tn OR ‘TRIPLIXAM’:tn OR  ‘TWYNSTA’:tn OR ‘UNASC’:tn OR ‘VAMLO’:tn OR ‘VASALAT’:tn OR ‘VAZKOR’:tn OR ‘VAZOTAL’:tn OR  ‘ZOREM’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   6. Simvastatin   ‘SIMVASTATIN’ OR ‘VELASTATIN’ OR ‘SIMVASTATINE’ OR ‘SIMVASTATÍN’ OR ‘SIMVASTATINA’ OR  ‘SIMVASTATINĂ’ OR ‘SINVASTATINA’ OR ‘SYMWASTATYNY’ OR ‘SYMWASTATYNA’ OR ‘SIMVASTATIN’  OR ‘SIMVASTATIN’ OR ‘SIMVASTATINE’ OR ‘SIMVASTATIN’ OR ‘SIMVASTATĪNS’ OR ‘SIMVASTATINUM’  OR ‘SIMVASTATINAS’ OR ‘SIMVASTATINUM’ OR ‘SIMVASTATINA’ OR ‘SIMVASTATÍN’ OR  ‘SZIMVASZTATIN’ OR ‘SIMVASTATIINI’ OR ‘SIMVASTATIINIA’ OR ‘SIMVASTATIIN’ OR ‘SIMVASTATIINI’  OR ‘SIMVASTATINA’ OR ‘SIMVASTATINUM’ OR ‘ACTALIPID’:tn OR ‘AKTANHIIHII’:tn OR ‘ALCOSIN’:tn  OR ‘ALISTIM’:tn OR ‘ALPHEUS’:tn OR ‘AMVESTIN’:tn OR ‘SIMVA’:tn OR ‘ASTAX’:tn OR ‘BELMALIP’:tn  OR ‘CHOLEMED’:tn OR ‘CHOLIB’:tn OR ‘CIPRINOL’:tn OR ‘COLEMIN’:tn OR ‘CORR’:tn OR ‘CORSIM’:tn  OR ‘DAXISTIN’:tn OR ‘DEXACHOL’:tn OR ‘DISLIPINA’:tn OR ‘EGILIPID’:tn OR ‘EXTRASTATIN’:tn OR  ‘EZETIMIB/SIMVASTATIN’:tn OR ‘EZETIMIBE/SIMVASTATIN MCDERMOTT’:tn OR  ‘EZETIMIBE/SIMVASTATIN’:tn OR ‘EZETIMIBE/SIMVASTATINE ’:tn OR ‘FLUITIN F.C.TAB’:tn OR  ‘GENSI’:tn OR ‘GEROSIM’:tn OR ‘GLIPAL’:tn OR ‘GLUTASEY’:tn OR ‘GOLDASTATIN’:tn OR ‘GOLTOR’:tn  OR ‘INEGY’:tn OR ‘IPRAMID’:tn OR ‘JABASTATINA’:tn OR ‘KRUSTAT’:tn OR ‘KYMAZOL’:tn OR ‘LEPUR’:tn  OR ‘LIP -DOWN’:tn OR ‘LIPAZ’:tn OR ‘LIPCUT’:tn OR ‘LIPENIL’:tn OR ‘LIPEX’:tn OR ‘LIPEXAL’:tn OR  ‘LIPIDUC’:tn OR ‘LIPOCIDEN’:tn OR ‘LIPOMIN’:tn OR ‘LIPONORM’:tn OR ‘LIPOPRESS’:tn OR  ‘LIPOREX’:tn OR ‘LIPTERRA’:tn OR ‘MEDILIP’:tn OR ‘NEZATIN’:tn OR ‘NITASTIN’:tn OR  ‘NORMOTHERIN’:tn OR ‘NYZOC’:tn OR ‘OMISTAT’:tn OR ‘PANTOK’:tn OR ‘PERICHOL’:tn OR ‘PLACOL’:tn  OR ‘PRAVOSTIN’:tn OR ‘PRELON’:tn OR ‘PRIACIN’:tn OR ‘PRIZELIP’:tn OR ‘PROTECTA’:tn OR  ‘QUIBUS’:tn OR ‘RAPTOR’:tn OR ‘RAVOSTAN’:tn OR ‘REDUSTEROL’:tn OR ‘SETORILIN’:tn OR  ‘SICOR’:tn OR ‘SIM’:tn OR ‘SIMAR’:tn OR ‘SIMATOR’:tn OR ‘SIMCOR’:tn OR ‘SIMCOVAS’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 37/368   ‘SIMGAL’:tn OR ‘SIMIDON’:tn OR ‘SIMORION’:tn OR ‘SIMRATIO’:tn OR ‘SIMTAN’:tn OR ‘SIMV’:tn OR  ‘SIMVA’:tn OR ‘SIMVA -ARISTO’:tn OR ‘SIMVABETA’:tn OR ‘SIMVACARD’:tn OR ‘SIMVACHOL’:tn OR  ‘SIMVACOL’:tn OR ‘SIMVACOR’:tn OR ‘SIMVADURA’:tn OR ‘SIMVAGAMMA’:tn OR ‘SIMVAGEN’:tn OR  ‘SIMVAHEXAL’:tn OR ‘SIMVALAN’:tn OR ‘SIMVALID’:tn OR ‘SIMVALIMIT’:tn OR ‘SIMVALIP’:tn OR  ‘SIMVAPROL’:tn OR ‘SIMVARCANA’:tn OR ‘SIMVASIM’:tn OR ‘SIMVASTAD’:tn OR ‘SIMVASTEROL’:tn OR  ‘SIMVATIN’:tn OR ‘SIMVAX’:tn OR ‘SIMVOR’:tn OR ‘SIMZOR’:tn OR ‘SINCOL’:tn OR ‘SINPOR’:tn OR  ‘SINTENAL’:tn OR ‘SINVACOR’:tn OR ‘SINVALIP’:tn OR ‘SINVASTATIN -’:tn OR ‘SINVASTATINA’:tn OR  ‘SINVAT’:tn OR ‘SIVACOR’:tn OR ‘SIVALES’:tn OR ‘SIVASTIN’:tn OR ‘SIVATIN’:tn OR ‘SIVINAR’:tn OR  ‘SOTOVASTIN’:tn OR ‘STASIVA’:tn OR ‘STATEX’:tn OR ‘STATINAL’:tn OR ‘STATSTAD’:tn OR ‘  SIMVASTATIN’:tn OR ‘TREMITAL’:tn OR ‘TURSTAT’:tn OR ‘VABADIN’:tn OR ‘VASILIP’:tn OR  ‘VASITIMB’:tn OR ‘VASSOR’:tn OR ‘VASTAN’:tn OR ‘VASTATIN’:tn OR ‘VASTGEN’:tn OR ‘VASTIN’:tn OR  ‘VYTORIN’:tn OR ‘XIMVE’:tn OR ‘XIPOCOL’:tn OR ‘ZEKLEN’:tn OR ‘ZEPLAN’:tn OR ‘ZOCOR’:tn OR  ‘ZOCORD’:tn OR ‘ZOSTATIN’:tn OR ‘ZOVAR 10’:tn OR ‘ADCO -SIMVASTATIN’:tn OR ‘SIMVASTATIN’:tn  OR ‘SIMVA’:tn OR ‘ASTAX’:tn OR ‘BESTATIN’:tn OR ‘CARDIN’:tn OR ‘CHOLESTAT’:tn OR ‘CLINART’:tn  OR ‘CLINFAR’:tn OR ‘CO SIMVASTATIN’:tn OR ‘COVASTIN’:tn OR ‘DENAN’:tn OR ‘FORCAD’:tn OR  ‘HISTOP’:tn OR ‘IFISTATIN’:tn OR ‘INEGY’:tn OR ‘LIPEX’:tn OR ‘LIPO -OFF’:tn OR ‘LIPOAUT’:tn OR  ‘LIPOBLOCK’:tn OR ‘LIPODOWN’:tn OR ‘LIPOKOBAN’:tn OR ‘LIPOLA M’:tn OR ‘LIPOLAM’:tn OR  ‘LIPONORM’:tn OR ‘LIPOVAS’:tn OR ‘LIPOVATOL’:tn OR ‘LIPOZART’:tn OR ‘LODALES’:tn OR ‘ - SIMVASTATIN’:tn OR ‘NORVASTATIN’:tn OR ‘PRAVOSTIN’:tn OR ‘PRELON’:tn OR ‘PROTECTA’:tn OR  ‘RAMIAN’:tn OR ‘RANSIM’:tn OR ‘REDUSTEROL’:tn OR ‘SIMCARD’:tn OR ‘SIMCORA’:tn OR ‘SIMGAL’:tn  OR ‘SIMOVIL’:tn OR ‘SIMTIN’:tn OR ‘SIMVA’:tn OR ‘SIMVABELL’:tn OR ‘SIMVABETA’:tn OR  ‘SIMVACARD’:tn OR ‘SIMVACOL’:tn OR ‘SIMVACOR’:tn OR ‘SIMVADOR’:tn OR ‘SIMVADURA’:tn OR  ‘SIMVAHEXAL’:tn OR ‘SIMVALIP’:tn OR ‘SIMVAR’:tn OR ‘SIMVAS’:tn OR ‘SIMVASIN’:tn OR  ‘SIMVAST’:tn OR ‘SIMVASTAD’:tn OR ‘SIMVASTEROL’:tn OR ‘SIMVASTIN’:tn OR ‘SIMVATIN’:tn OR  ‘SIMVAXON’:tn OR ‘SIMVOR’:tn OR ‘SIMVOTIN’:tn OR ‘SINSTATIN’:tn OR ‘SINVACOR’:tn OR  ‘SINVALIP’:tn OR ‘SINVASCOR’:tn OR ‘SINVASTACOR’:tn OR ‘SINVAX’:tn OR ‘SIVASTIN’:tn OR  ‘VABADIN’:tn OR ‘VASCOR’:tn OR ‘VASILIP’:tn OR ‘VASOTENAL’:tn OR ‘VASTATIN’:tn OR ‘VASTIN’:tn  OR ‘VIDASTAT’:tn OR ‘VYTORIN’:tn OR ‘VYTORIN’:tn OR ‘ZETSIM’:tn OR ‘ZIMMEX’:tn OR ‘ZIMSTAT’:tn  OR ‘ZINTREPID’:tn OR ‘ZOCOR’:tn OR ‘ZOCORD’:tn OR ‘ZOFILIP’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp  OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 38/368   7. Diclofenac   ‘DICLOFENAC’ OR ‘DIKLOFENAKU.’ OR ‘DIKLOFENAKAS’ OR ‘DICLOFENACUM’ OR ‘DICLOFÉNAC’ OR  ‘DICLOFENACO’ OR ‘ACTISUNY’:tn OR ‘ADACIUM’:tn OR ‘AKIS’:tn OR ‘AKISFLAM’:tn OR ‘ALGISTICK’:tn  OR ‘ALGOPAIN -EZE’:tn OR ‘ALGOPLAST -’:tn OR ‘ALGOSENAC’:tn OR ‘ALLVORAN’:tn OR ‘ALMIRAL’:tn  OR ‘ALTERFLEX’:tn OR ‘ANTALCALM’:tn OR ‘ARESTON’:tn OR ‘ARTHREX’:tn OR ‘ARTHROTEC’:tn OR  ‘ARTOTEC’:tn OR ‘ARTROTEC’:tn OR ‘BATAFIL’:tn OR ‘CATAFAST’:tn OR ‘CATAFLAM’:tn OR ‘CATAFLAM - V’:tn OR ‘CLAFEN’:tn OR ‘COLTILO’:tn OR ‘COMBAREN’:tn OR ‘COMPRALFENE’:tn OR  ‘COUNTERFLAME’:tn OR ‘DAGESIL’:tn OR ‘DEDOLOR’:tn OR ‘DEFLAMAT’:tn OR ‘DELIMON’:tn OR  ‘DENACLOF’:tn OR ‘DICIPAN’:tn OR ‘DICLABETA’:tn OR ‘DICLAC’:tn OR ‘DICLACHEXAL’:tn OR  ‘DICLAMINE’:tn OR ‘DICLANGEL’:tn OR ‘DICLO’:tn OR ‘DICLO -B’:tn OR ‘DICLO -CT’:tn OR ‘DICLO - DIVIDO’:tn OR ‘DICLO -KLINGE’:tn OR ‘DICLO -SAAR’:tn OR ‘DICLO -SR’:tn OR ‘DICLO’:tn OR  ‘DICLOABAK’:tn OR ‘DICLOBENE’:tn OR ‘DICLOBERL’:tn OR ‘DICLOCULAR’:tn OR ‘DICLODAN’:tn OR  ‘DICLODUO’:tn OR ‘DICLOFAN’:tn OR ‘DICLOFENAC’:tn OR ‘DICLOFENAC SODIUM’:tn OR  ‘DICLOFENAC -KALIUM AL’:tn OR ‘DICLOFENAC -KALIUM’:tn OR ‘DICLOFENAC -’:tn OR  ‘DICLOFENAC/MISOPROSTOL’ ‘DICLOFENACKALIUM ORIFARM’:tn OR ‘DICLOFENACKALIUM ‘:tn OR  ‘DICLOFENACNATRIUM/MISOPROSTOL’:tn OR ‘DICLOFENACNATRIUM/MISOPROSTOL’:tn OR  ‘DICLOFENACNATRIUM/MISOPROSTOL’:tn OR ‘DICLOFENACO’:tn OR ‘DICLOFENACO -LEPORI’:tn OR  ‘DICLOFENBETA’:tn OR ‘DICLOFLEX’:tn OR ‘DICLOFTIL’:tn OR ‘DICLOGEL’:tn OR ‘DICLOGEN’:tn OR  ‘DICLOGENOPT’:tn OR ‘DICLOIN’:tn OR ‘DICLOJET’:tn OR ‘DICLOKERN’:tn OR ‘DICLOMEL SR’:tn OR  ‘DICLOMELAN’:tn OR ‘DICLOMEX’:tn OR ‘DICLON’:tn OR ‘DICLONEUROVIT’:tn OR ‘DICLOPAX’:tn OR  ‘DICLOPLAST’:tn OR ‘DICLORAL’:tn OR ‘DICLORAPID’:tn OR ‘DICLORATIO’:tn OR ‘DICLOREUM’:tn OR  ‘DICLOSAL’:tn OR ‘DICLOSPRAY’:tn OR ‘DICLOSTAD’:tn OR ‘DICLOSYL’:tn OR ‘DICLOTARD’:tn OR  ‘DICLOTIN’:tn OR ‘DICLOTOPIC’:tn OR ‘DICLOVEC’:tn OR ‘DICLOVIT’:tn OR ‘DICLOVOL’:tn OR  ‘DICLOWAL’:tn OR ‘DICLOZIAJA’:tn OR ‘DICUNO’:tn OR ‘DIFADOL’:tn OR ‘DIFEN UD’:tn OR  ‘DIFEND’:tn OR ‘DIFENE’:tn OR ‘DIFLAM’:tn OR ‘DIFLEX’:tn OR ‘DIGNOFENAC’:tn OR ‘DIKLOFENAK’:tn  OR ‘DIKLOFENAK/MISOPROSTOL’:tn OR ‘DIKY’:tn OR ‘DILCOFENAC’:tn OR ‘DOLACEN’:tn OR  ‘DOLAUT’:tn OR ‘DOLHEXAL’:tn OR ‘DOLMINA’:tn OR ‘DOLO -VOLTARÉN’:tn OR ‘DOLOFLEX’:tn OR  ‘DOLOSTRIP’:tn OR ‘DOLOTREN’:tn OR ‘DOLPASSE’:tn OR ‘DORCALOR’:tn OR ‘DOROXAN’:tn OR  ‘DROPFLAM’:tn OR ‘ECONAC’:tn OR ‘EEZE’:tn OR ‘EEZENEO’:tn OR ‘EMINOCS’:tn OR ‘ENSTAR’:tn OR  ‘EVINOPON’:tn OR ‘FASTUM ANTIDOLORIFICO’:tn OR ‘FELOGEL’:tn OR ‘FELORAN’:tn OR ‘FENAC’:tn OR  ‘FENACTA’:tn OR ‘FENACTOL’:tn OR ‘FENADOL’:tn OR ‘FENDER’:tn OR ‘FENIL -V’:tn OR ‘FENOCLOF’:tn  OR ‘FLAMERIL’:tn OR ‘FLECTOR’:tn OR ‘FLECTORARTRO’:tn OR ‘FLECTOREFFIGEL’:tn OR  ‘FLECTORTISSUGELEP’:tn OR ‘FLOGOFENAC’:tn OR ‘FORTEDOL’:tn OR ‘FRENALGIL’:tn OR ‘GEROVIT’:tn  OR ‘GLIMBAX’:tn OR ‘INDICAM’:tn OR ‘INFLAMALGIN’:tn OR ‘INFORCE’:tn OR ‘ITAMI’:tn OR  ‘ITAMIDOL’:tn OR ‘ITAMIFAST’:tn OR ‘JUTAFENAC’:tn OR ‘KAPPADI’:tn OR ‘KINESPIR PATCH’:tn OR  ‘KLÓFEN -L’:tn OR ‘KRUIDVAT DICLOFENAC’:tn OR ‘KYFLAM’:tn OR ‘LEVIOGEL’:tn OR ‘LUASE’:tn OR  ‘MAJAMIL’:tn OR ‘MALENAC’:tn OR ‘MASIDEMEN’:tn OR ‘MINIFLAM’:tn OR ‘MISOFEN’:tn OR  ‘MISOFENAC’:tn OR ‘MOBIGEL SPRAY’:tn OR ‘MODIFENAC’:tn OR ‘MOMENLOCALDOL’:tn OR  ‘MOTIFENE’:tn OR ‘NACLOF’:tn OR ‘NAKLOFEN’:tn OR ‘NEODOLPASSE’:tn OR ‘NERITAN’:tn OR  ‘NEUROFENAC’:tn OR ‘NOVAPIRINA’:tn OR ‘OCUBRAX’:tn OR ‘OLFEN’:tn OR ‘ORTOFEN’:tn OR  ‘ORTOFĒNA’:tn OR ‘OSMAL’:tn OR ‘OTRIFLU’:tn OR ‘PAINEX’:tn OR ‘PENNSAID’:tn OR ‘PONGOL’:tn OR  ‘QPAIN’:tn OR ‘RATIOPARCH’:tn OR ‘REFEN’:tn OR ‘REMETHAN’:tn OR ‘REWODINA’:tn OR  ‘RHEUMATAC’:tn OR ‘RHUMALGAN CR’:tn OR ‘RHUMALGAN SR’:tn OR ‘RHUMALGAN’:tn OR ‘RISIF’:tn  OR ‘RUVOMINOX’:tn OR ‘SAILIB’:tn OR ‘SCHMERZGEL’:tn OR ‘SL’:tn OR ‘SLOFENAC’:tn OR  ‘SOLARAZE’:tn OR ‘SOPHENODERM’:tn OR ‘SPRAYMIK’:tn OR ‘SYNTHOFLEX’:tn OR ‘TAKS’:tn OR  ‘TENDOL’:tn OR ‘LGIESPRAY’:tn OR ‘TOBRAFEN’:tn OR ‘TOPALGON’:tn OR ‘TOPFANS’:tn OR  ‘TRATUL’:tn OR ‘TRAULEN’:tn OR ‘TRAVMAGEL’:tn OR ‘UNICLOPHEN’:tn OR ‘UNO’:tn OR ‘URIGON’:tn  OR ‘VENOŻEL’:tn OR ‘VERAL’:tn OR ‘VIKLAREN’:tn OR ‘VOFENAC’:tn OR ‘VOLRAMAN’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 39/368   ‘VOLSAID’:tn OR ‘VOLTABAK’:tn OR ‘VOLTADOL’:tn OR ‘VOLTADVANCE’:tn OR ‘VOLTALGAN’:tn OR  ‘VOLTAPATCH TISSUGEL’:tn OR ‘VOLTAREN’:tn OR ‘VOLTARENACTIGO’:tn OR ‘VOLTARENACTIGO  INTENSE’:tn OR ‘VOLTARENDOLO’:tn OR ‘VOLTARENE’:tn OR ‘VOLTARENOPHTA’:tn OR  ‘VOLTARENOPHTABAK’:tn OR ‘VOLTARENPLAST’:tn OR ‘VOLTARENSPE’:tn OR ‘VOLTAREN K  MIGRÄNE’:tn OR ‘VOLTAROL’:tn OR ‘VOLTARÉN’:tn OR ‘VOLTFAST’:tn OR ‘VURDON’:tn OR ‘VÓSTAR - S’:tn OR ‘WERGYL’:tn OR ‘XENID’:tn OR ‘ZARPEN’:tn OR ‘ZEROFLOG’:tn OR ‘ABITREN’:tn OR  ‘ADEFURONIC’:tn OR ‘ADEFURONIC -L’:tn OR ‘ALLVORAN’:tn OR ‘ANAVAN’:tn OR ‘DICLO’:tn OR  ‘DICLOFENAC’:tn OR ‘ARTHOTEC’:tn OR ‘ARTHREX’:tn OR ‘ARTHROTEC’:tn OR ‘ARTOTEC’:tn OR  ‘ARTREN’:tn OR ‘ARTRENAC’:tn OR ‘ARTROTEC’:tn OR ‘ARTROZAN’:tn OR ‘ATALAK’:tn OR ‘BEGITA’:tn  OR ‘BLESIN’:tn OR ‘BOLABOMIN’:tn OR ‘CAMBIA’:tn OR ‘CATAFAST’:tn OR ‘CATAFLAM’:tn OR  ‘CATAFLAM -D’:tn OR ‘CLOFENAC’:tn OR ‘CLONAC’:tn OR ‘COMBAREN’:tn OR ‘DAISPAS’:tn OR  ‘DEALGIC’:tn OR ‘DEFLAMAT’:tn OR ‘DENCORUB’:tn OR ‘DICLAC’:tn OR ‘DICLO’:tn OR ‘DICLOBERL’:tn  OR ‘DICLOD’:tn OR ‘DICLOFAN’:tn OR ‘DICLOFEN’:tn OR ‘DICLOFENACNATRIUM’:tn OR  ‘DICLOFENACO’:tn OR ‘DICLOFLAM’:tn OR ‘DICLOFLEX’:tn OR ‘DICLOGEN’:tn OR ‘DICLOGESIC’:tn OR  ‘DICLOHEXAL’:tn OR ‘DICLOMAX’:tn OR ‘DICLOMEC’:tn OR ‘DICLON’:tn OR ‘DICLONAT P’:tn OR  ‘DICLORAN’:tn OR ‘DICLORAPID’:tn OR ‘DICLOREUM’:tn OR ‘DICLOSTAR’:tn OR ‘DICLOVIT’:tn OR  ‘DIFENAC’:tn OR ‘DIFENE’:tn OR ‘DIFENET’:tn OR ‘DIFLAM’:tn OR ‘DIFNAL’:tn OR ‘DIKLOFENAK’:tn OR  ‘DIKLORON’:tn OR ‘DOLAREN’:tn OR ‘DOLO -NERVOBIÓN’:tn OR ‘DOLO -NEUROBION’:tn OR ‘DOLO - VOLTAREN’:tn OR ‘DOLOREX’:tn OR ‘DOLPASSE’:tn OR ‘DOSANAC’:tn OR ‘ECOFENAC’:tn OR  ‘EFFIGEL.’:tn OR ‘FENAC’:tn OR ‘FENAFLAN’:tn OR ‘FENAREN’:tn OR ‘FENIL -V’:tn OR ‘FENYTAREN’:tn  OR ‘FLAMERIL’:tn OR ‘FLECTOPARIN’:tn OR ‘FLECTOR’:tn OR ‘FLEXAGEN’:tn OR ‘FLODIN DUO’:tn OR  ‘FLOTAC’:tn OR ‘FORTFEN’:tn OR ‘HALEMUNIN’:tn OR ‘INAC’:tn OR ‘INFLAMAC’:tn OR ‘IRINATOLON’:tn  OR ‘JENAFENAC’:tn OR ‘MAXILERG’:tn OR ‘MERICUT’:tn OR ‘MOTIFENE’:tn OR ‘NABOAL’:tn OR  ‘NACLOF’:tn OR ‘NAKLOFEN’:tn OR ‘NEUROFENAC’:tn OR ‘NOVAPIRINA’:tn OR ‘OLFEN’:tn OR ‘OLFEN - 75’:tn OR ‘ORTOFEN’:tn OR ‘ORTOPHEN’:tn OR ‘PAINEX’:tn OR ‘PANAMOR’:tn OR ‘PENNSAID’:tn OR  ‘PMS-BACLOFEN’:tn OR ‘PMS -DICLOFENAC’:tn OR ‘PMS -DICLOFENAC -SR’:tn OR ‘PRIMOFENAC’:tn OR  ‘RAPTEN DUO’:tn OR ‘RAPTEN RAPID’:tn OR ‘RECTOS’:tn OR ‘RELOVA’:tn OR ‘RENVOL’:tn OR  ‘SAVISMIN’:tn OR ‘SOLARAZE’:tn OR ‘SORELMON’:tn OR ‘SORELMON -SR’:tn OR ‘ -DICLOFENAC’:tn OR  ‘THICATAREN’:tn OR ‘TOBRAFEN’:tn OR ‘UNO’:tn OR ‘VELTEX’:tn OR ‘VERAL’:tn OR ‘VICLOFEN’:tn OR  ‘VOLMAGEN’:tn OR ‘VOLTADVANCE’:tn OR ‘VOLTAMICIN’:tn OR ‘VOLTAREN’:tn OR ‘VOLTAREN -XR’:tn  OR ‘VOLTARENE’:tn OR ‘VOLTAROL’:tn OR ‘VOLTARÉN NURO’:tn OR ‘VOLTFAST’:tn OR ‘VONAFEC’:tn  OR ‘VONFENAC’:tn OR ‘VOREN’:tn OR ‘VOTAN SR’:tn OR ‘VURDON’:tn OR ‘YOUFENAC’:tn OR  ‘ZIPSOR’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 40/368   8. Ciprofloxacin   ‘CIPROFLOXACIN’ OR ‘1CYCLOPROPYL6FLUORO4OXO7PIPERAZIN1YLQUINOLINE3CARBOXYLIC ACID’  OR ‘CIPROFLOKSACIN’ OR ‘CIPROFLOXACINA’ OR ‘CYPROFLOKS ACYNA’ OR ‘CYPROFLOKSACYNY’ OR   ‘CIPROFLOKSACĪNS’ OR ‘CIPROFLOKSACINA’ OR ‘CIPROFLOKSACINAS’ OR ‘CIPROFLOKSACINO’ OR  ‘CIPROFLOXACINUM’ OR ‘CIPROFLOXACINE’ OR ‘SIPROFLOKSASIINIA’ OR ‘TSIPROFLOKSATSIINI’ OR  ‘TSIPROFLOKSATSIIN’ OR ‘CIPROFLOXACINO’ OR  ‘ACEOTO’:tn OR ‘AFENOXIN’:tn OR ‘ARAXACINA’:tn  OR ‘ARISTIN  C’:tn OR ‘ARISTINC’:tn OR ‘BALEPTON’:tn OR ‘BAYCIP’:tn OR ‘BIVORILAN’:tn OR  ‘CETRAFLUX’:tn OR ‘CETRAXAL’:tn OR ‘CEXIDAL’:tn OR ‘CHINOCID’:tn OR ‘CIFIN’:tn OR ‘CIFLOX’:tn  OR ‘CIFLOXAGER’:tn OR ‘CIFLOXIN’:tn OR ‘CIFLOXINAL’:tn OR ‘CIFOX’:tn OR ‘CIFRAN’:tn OR  ‘CILODEX’:tn OR ‘CILOX’:tn OR ‘CILOXAN’:tn OR ‘CIPERUS’:tn OR ‘CIPHIN’:tn OR ‘CIPLOX’:tn OR  ‘CIPRINOMYL’:tn OR ‘CIPRO’:tn OR ‘CIPROSAAR’:tn OR ‘CIPROBAY’:tn OR ‘CIPROBETA’:tn OR  ‘CIPROCTON’:tn OR ‘CIPRODURA’:tn OR ‘CIPROFAL’:tn OR ‘CIPROFLOKSACIN’:tn OR ‘CIPROFLOX’:tn  OR ‘CIPROFLOX TAD’:tn OR ‘CIPROFLOXCT’:tn OR ‘CIPROFLOXACIN’:tn OR ‘CIPROFLOXACIN/’:tn OR  ‘CIPROFLOXACINA’:tn OR ‘CIPROFLOXACINE’:tn OR ‘CIPROFLOXACINO’:tn OR ‘CIPROFLOXACÍN’:tn OR  ‘CIPROHEXAL’:tn OR ‘CIPROL’:tn OR ‘CIPROLEN’:tn OR ‘CIPROLON’:tn OR ‘CIPROMED’:tn OR  ‘CIPROMEDICA’:tn OR ‘CIPRONEX’:tn OR ‘CIPROPOL’:tn OR ‘CIPROSCOPE’:tn OR ‘CIPROSPES’:tn OR  ‘CIPROSTAD’:tn OR ‘CIPROTABS’:tn OR ‘CIPROTEN’:tn OR ‘CIPROVIAN’:tn OR ‘CIPROX’:tn OR  ‘CIPROXIN’:tn OR ‘CIPROXINA’:tn OR ‘CIPROXINE’:tn OR ‘CIPRUM’:tn OR ‘CITERAL’:tn OR  ‘CITROVENOT’:tn OR ‘CUMINOL’:tn OR ‘CUNESIN’:tn OR ‘CUSPIS’:tn OR ‘CYDONIN’:tn OR  ‘CYPROFLOKSACYNA’:tn OR ‘DILON’:tn OR ‘DORIMAN’:tn OR ‘DROLL’:tn OR ‘EDESTIS’:tn OR  ‘EOXIN’:tn OR ‘ESTECINA’:tn OR ‘FLOCIPRIN’:tn OR ‘FLONTALEXIN’:tn OR ‘FORTERRA’:tn OR  ‘GERBAT’:tn OR ‘GIROFLOX’:tn OR ‘GLOBUCE’:tn OR ‘GRENISCIPRO 500 MG FTBL’:tn OR  ‘GRENISCIRPO’:tn OR ‘GYRACIP N’:tn OR ‘IASAR’:tn OR ‘IBIXACIN’:tn OR ‘INFALIN DUO’:tn OR  ‘INFECTOCIPROCORT’:tn OR ‘KECIFLOX’:tn OR ‘KINOX’:tn OR ‘LADININ’:tn OR ‘LIMOX’:tn OR  ‘MACAR’:tn OR ‘MEDIFLOX’:tn OR ‘MEDOCIPRIN’:tn OR ‘MEGAFLOX’:tn OR ‘MYRCIPROX’:tn OR  ‘NAFLOXIN’:tn OR ‘NIXIN’:tn OR ‘NOVOCIF’:tn OR ‘NUMEN’:tn OR ‘OFTACILOX’:tn OR ‘OTANOL’:tn OR  ‘OTOSAT’:tn OR ‘OTOTIS’:tn OR ‘PANOTILE CIPRO’:tn OR ‘PROCIFLOR’:tn OR ‘PROFLOXIN’:tn OR  ‘PROXACIN’:tn OR ‘QUINOX’:tn OR ‘QUINTOR’:tn OR ‘RAVALTON’:tn OR ‘REVIONORM’:tn OR  ‘RIGORAN’:tn OR ‘SAMPER’:tn OR ‘SEPCEN’:tn OR ‘SEPTOCIPRO’:tn OR ‘SIPROX’:tn OR  ‘SYNTOFLOX’:tn OR ‘SÍPROX’:tn OR ‘TOPISTIN’:tn OR ‘TRUOXIN’:tn OR ‘UFEXIL’:tn OR ‘ULTRAMICINA  PLUS’:tn OR ‘UNICEXAL’:tn OR ‘UNIFLOX’:tn OR ‘URODIXIN’:tn OR ‘VIPROLOX’:tn OR ‘ZINDOLIN’:tn  OR ‘APOCIPROFLOX’:tn OR ‘BACTIFLOX’:tn OR ‘BAYCIP’:tn OR ‘CFLOX’:tn OR ‘CATEX’:tn OR  ‘CETRAXAL’:tn OR ‘CIFLOX’:tn OR ‘CIFLOXIN’:tn OR ‘CIFRAN’:tn OR ‘CIFROQUINON’:tn OR  ‘CILODEX’:tn OR ‘CILOX’:tn OR ‘CILOXAN’:tn OR ‘CIP ECO’:tn OR ‘CIPHIN’:tn OR ‘CIPLOX’:tn OR  ‘CIPLOXX’:tn OR ‘CIPRINOL’:tn OR ‘CIPRO’:tn OR ‘CIPROKABI’:tn OR ‘CIPROBAY’:tn OR ‘CIPROBIOT’:tn  OR ‘CIPROCIN’:tn OR ‘CIPROCINAL’:tn OR ‘CIPROCTAL’:tn OR ‘CIPRODAR’:tn OR ‘CIPRODEX’:tn OR  ‘CIPRODURA’:tn OR ‘CIPROFLOX’:tn OR ‘CIPROFLOXPUREN’:tn OR ‘CIPROFLOXACINE’:tn OR  ‘CIPROFLOXACINO’:tn OR ‘CIPROGIS’:tn OR ‘CIPROL’:tn OR ‘CIPROLET’:tn OR ‘CIPROPOL’:tn OR   ‘CIPROXAN’:tn OR ‘CIPROXINHYDROCORTISON’:tn OR ‘CIPROXINA’:tn OR ‘CIRIAX’:tn OR ‘CIROK’:tn  OR ‘CITERAL’:tn OR ‘CO CIPROFLOXACIN’:tn OR ‘CYCIN’:tn OR ‘DISPLOTIN’:tn OR ‘ENOXIN’:tn OR  ‘ESTECINA’:tn OR ‘FLOKISYL’:tn OR ‘MAROCEN’:tn OR ‘MAXIFLOX’:tn OR ‘MEGAFLOX’:tn OR  ‘MICRORGAN’:tn OR ‘NOVOCIPROFLOXACIN’:tn OR ‘ORPIC’:tn OR ‘OTANOL’:tn OR ‘OTOFOXIN’:tn OR  ‘PMSCIPROFLOXACIN’:tn OR ‘PROFLOXIN’:tn OR ‘PROQUIN’:tn OR ‘PROXACIN’:tn OR ‘PROXITOR’:tn  OR ‘QUINOFLOX’:tn OR ‘QUIPRO’:tn OR ‘RANCIPROFLOXACIN’:tn OR ‘SERVIFLOX’:tn OR  ‘SHIPKISANON’:tn OR ‘TAM’:tn OR ‘UNIFLOX’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 41/368   complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   9. Pantoprazole   ‘PANTOPRAZOLE’ OR ‘PANTOPRAZOL’ OR ‘PANTOPRAZOLIS’ OR ‘PANTOPRAZOLUM’ OR  ‘PANTOPRAZOLO’ OR ‘PANTOPRATSOLI’ OR ‘PANTOPRAZOLUM’ OR ‘ACIDA’:tn OR ‘ACIDOSTOP’:tn OR  ‘ACIDWELL’:tn OR ‘ACILIB’:tn OR ‘ACIPAN’:tn OR ‘ADGC’:tn OR ‘ALAPANZOL’:tn OR ‘AMOXICILLIN/  CLARITHROMYCIN/ PANTOPRAZOL’:tn OR ‘ANAGASTRA’:tn OR ‘ANESTELOC’:tn OR ‘ANXEL’:tn OR  ‘APAZOL’:tn OR ‘APOPANTO 40’:tn OR ‘APTON’:tn OR ‘AZATOL’:tn OR ‘AZIDIM’:tn OR ‘BEMEXA’:tn OR  ‘BRANDOCARE’:tn OR ‘BUSCOPAN REFLUSSO’:tn OR ‘CITREL’:tn OR ‘CONTIX’:tn OR ‘CONTIX ZRD’:tn  OR ‘CONTRACID’:tn OR ‘CONTRAGAST’:tn OR ‘CONTROLOC’:tn OR ‘CUVEVA’:tn OR ‘DAQUIMED’:tn OR  ‘DICARBOCALM CONTROL’:tn OR ‘DIGESPAN’:tn OR ‘DOSANLOC’:tn OR ‘EMAPANT’:tn OR  ‘EMPAFLUN’:tn OR ‘EROZOL’:tn OR ‘EUGASTROL REFLUSSO’:tn OR ‘EUPANTOL’:tn OR ‘FREESTOM’:tn  OR ‘GASTROCOMB’:tn OR ‘GASTROLAN’:tn OR ‘GASTROLIEF’:tn OR ‘GASTROLOC’:tn OR  ‘GASTROPANT’:tn OR ‘GASTROPANTIUM’:tn OR ‘GASTROWELL CONTROL’:tn OR ‘GASTROZOL’:tn OR  ‘GENEPAN’:tn OR ‘GERPRAZOL’:tn OR ‘GESOFLUX’:tn OR ‘GIRENOXIN’:tn OR ‘GONDEA’:tn OR  ‘INIPANT’:tn OR ‘INIPEPSIA’:tn OR ‘INIPOMP’:tn OR ‘IPP’:tn OR ‘IPPRACID 20 MG’:tn OR ‘IPRAALOX’:tn  OR ‘KAIROL’:tn OR ‘MAAGZUURTABLETTEN PANTOPRAZOL HTP’:tn OR ‘MAAGZUURTABLETTEN  PANTOPRAZOL SAM’:tn OR ‘MAALOX’:tn OR ‘MAG’:tn OR ‘MANAR’:tn OR ‘MEMPRACID’:tn OR  ‘MICROPAN’:tn OR ‘ GENERICS PANTOPRAZOLE’:tn OR ‘NEDIS’:tn OR ‘NOACID’:tn OR ‘NOLPACID’:tn  OR ‘NOLPANTA’:tn OR ‘NOLPANTOL’:tn OR ‘NOLPAZA’:tn OR ‘NOLPAZAL’:tn OR ‘NORMOGASTROL’:tn  OR ‘OZEPRAN’:tn OR ‘OZOLEMMA’:tn OR ‘OZZION’:tn OR ‘PACID’:tn OR ‘PANCLAMOX’:tn OR  ‘PANCLEUS’:tn OR ‘PANCRISTOLE’:tn OR ‘PANOGASTIN’:tn OR ‘PANPRABENE’:tn OR ‘PANPRAZOX’:tn  OR ‘PANPREZA’:tn OR ‘PANRAZOL’:tn OR ‘PANRAZOLE’:tn OR ‘PANTACTA’:tn OR ‘PANTAROL’:tn OR  ‘PANTAU’:tn OR ‘PANTECTA’:tn OR ‘PANTEXEL’:tn OR ‘PANTIP’:tn OR ‘PANTIUM’:tn OR ‘PANTO’:tn OR  ‘PANTOBYK40’:tn OR ‘PANTOBAX’:tn OR ‘PANTOC’:tn OR ‘PANTOCURE’:tn OR ‘PANTOFIR’:tn OR  ‘PANTOFLUX’:tn OR ‘PANTOGASTRIL’:tn OR ‘PANTOGASTRIX’:tn OR ‘PANTOGEROLAN’:tn OR  ‘PANTOJEKT’:tn OR ‘PANTOJENSON’:tn OR ‘PANTOLOC’:tn OR ‘PANTOMAC’:tn OR ‘PANTOMED’:tn OR  ‘PANTOMOL’:tn OR ‘PANTO’:tn OR ‘PANTONOVO’:tn OR ‘PANTOPAC’:tn OR ‘PANTOPAN’:tn OR  ‘PANTOPRAQ’:tn OR ‘PANTOPRAL’:tn OR ‘PANTOPRAPHAR’:tn OR ‘PANTOPRATSOLI SUN’:tn OR  ‘PANTOPRAZ’:tn OR ‘PANTOPRAZOL, PAKNINGSSTØRRELSER  28 STK.’:tn OR ‘PANTOPRAZOLCT’:tn OR  ‘PANTOPRAZOLCT PROTECT’:tn OR ‘PANTOPRAZOLEGIS EGIS’:tn OR ‘PANTOPRAZOL’:tn OR  ‘PANTOPRAZOL’:tn OR ‘PANTOPRAZOLE’:tn OR ‘PANTOPRAZOLEMEPHA’:tn OR  ‘PANTOPRAZOLETCHAIKA’:tn OR ‘PANTOPRAZOLE’:tn OR ‘PANTOPREM’:tn OR ‘PANTOPREMOL’:tn OR  ‘PANTOR’:tn OR ‘PANTORC’:tn OR ‘PANTOREN’:tn OR ‘PANTOSEC’:tn OR ‘PANTOTEX’:tn OR  ‘PANTOZOL’:tn OR ‘PANTOZOL I.V.’:tn OR ‘PANTROPRAZOLEMEPHA’:tn OR ‘PANTUL’:tn OR ‘PANTUP’:tn  OR ‘PANTUP RELIEF’:tn OR ‘PANZAT’:tn OR ‘PANZILAN’:tn OR ‘PANZOR’:tn OR ‘PEPTAZOL’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 42/368   ‘PEPTIX’:tn OR ‘PIADOR’:tn OR ‘POMPEC’:tn OR ‘PORTORIN’:tn OR ‘PRAZOLACID’:tn OR  ‘PRAZOLPAN’:tn OR ‘PRAZOPANT’:tn OR ‘PREVIFECT’:tn OR ‘PRONZEK’:tn OR ‘PROTIUM’:tn OR  ‘PROTIZOLE’:tn OR ‘RANLOC’:tn OR ‘REDACIB’:tn OR ‘REFLUXIN’:tn OR ‘REFLUXINE’:tn OR ‘REPRAT’:tn  OR ‘RIFUN’:tn OR ‘SEDIPANTO’:tn OR ‘SELTRAZ’:tn OR ‘SODAC’:tn OR ‘SOMAC’:tn OR ‘STOMAFOR’:tn  OR ‘SUPRACID’:tn OR ‘SURMERA’:tn OR ‘TECTA’:tn OR ‘TECTIAM’:tn OR ‘TRARSUMIR’:tn OR  ‘ULCERON’:tn OR ‘ULCOTENAL’:tn OR ‘ULPRIX’:tn OR ‘ULZATE’:tn OR ‘UNRAZOL’:tn OR ‘VERNEG’:tn  OR ‘XOTEPIC’:tn OR ‘YOEVID’:tn OR ‘ZACPAC’:tn OR ‘ZELADROL’:tn OR ‘ZENCOPAN’:tn OR  ‘ZIPANTOL’:tn OR ‘ZIPANTOLA’:tn OR ‘ZOLEMER’:tn OR ‘ZOLEPANT’:tn OR ‘ZOLTEX’:tn OR ‘ZOPRAX’:tn  OR ‘ZURCAL’:tn OR ‘ZURCALE’:tn OR ‘ZURCAZOL’:tn OR ‘ZURCAZOL I.V.’:tn OR ‘ANAGASTRA’:tn OR  ‘CO PANTOPRAZOLE’:tn OR ‘CONTROLOC’:tn OR ‘EUPANTOL’:tn OR ‘GASTROLOC’:tn OR ‘INIPOMP’:tn  OR ‘PANTOPRAZOLE’:tn OR ‘NOLPAZA’:tn OR ‘OZPAN’:tn OR ‘PACID’:tn OR ‘PANPRAX’:tn OR  ‘PANRAZOL’:tn OR ‘PANTACID’:tn OR ‘PANTECTA’:tn OR ‘PANTIP’:tn OR ‘PANTIUM’:tn OR ‘PANTO’:tn  OR ‘PANTOC’:tn OR ‘PANTOCAL’:tn OR ‘PANTOCID’:tn OR ‘PANTOGEN’:tn OR ‘PANTOLOC’:tn OR  ‘PANTOMED’:tn OR ‘PANTOMOL’:tn OR ‘PANTOPAC’:tn OR ‘PANTOPAN’:tn OR ‘PANTOPAZ’:tn OR  ‘PANTOPRAZOLMEPHA’:tn OR ‘PANTOPRAZOLE’:tn OR ‘PANTORC’:tn OR ‘PANTOSEC’:tn OR  ‘PANTOZOL’:tn OR ‘PANTOZOL I.V.’:tn OR ‘PANTPAS’:tn OR ‘PANZOL’:tn OR ‘PEPTAZOL’:tn OR  ‘PROTIUM’:tn OR ‘PROTONEX’:tn OR ‘PROTONIX’:tn OR ‘PULCET’:tn OR ‘RANPANTOPRAZOLE’:tn OR  ‘RAZON’:tn OR ‘REFLUXIN’:tn OR ‘RIVAPANTOPRAZOLE’:tn OR ‘SALPRAZ’:tn OR ‘SOMAC’:tn OR  ‘SOZOL’:tn OR ‘SUPACID’:tn OR ‘TECTA’:tn OR ‘PANTOPRAZOLE’:tn OR ‘ZACPAC’:tn OR ‘ZIPANTOLA’:tn  OR ‘ZIPROL’:tn OR ‘ZURCAL’:tn OR ‘ZURCALE’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   10. Lidocaine   ‘LIDOCAINE’ OR ‘LIDOCAINUM’ OR ‘LIDOCAIN’ OR ‘LIDOCAINA’ OR  ‘2DIETHYLAMINON(2,6DIMETHYLPHENYL)ACETAMIDE’ OR ‘LIDOKAIN’ OR ‘LIDOKAIN’ OR ‘LIDOKAÍN’  OR ‘LIDOCAINĂ’ OR ‘LIDOCAÍNA’ OR ‘LIDOCAINA’ OR ‘LIDOKAINY’ OR ‘LIDOKAINA’ OR ‘LIDOKAIN’ OR  ‘LIDOCAÏNE’ OR ‘LIDOKAĪNS’ OR ‘LIDOKAINAS’ OR ‘LIDOCAINUM’ OR ‘LIDOKAIN’ OR ‘LIDOCAINA’ OR  ‘LIDOKAIN’ OR ‘LIDICÉIN’ OR ‘LIDOCAÏNE’ OR ‘LIDOKAIINIA’ OR ‘LIDOKAIINI’ OR ‘LIDOKAIIN’ OR   ‘ACOIN’:tn OR ‘ADRENALINE BITARTRATE + LIDOCAINE HYDROCHLORIDE ASTRAZENECA’:tn OR  ‘AESCULAN’:tn OR ‘ALVOGYL’:tn OR ‘AMBENE PARENTERAL’:tn OR ‘ANBESOL’:tn OR ‘ANGAL’:tn OR  ‘ANGINOL LIDOCAINE’:tn OR ‘ANGINOL LIDOCAÏNE’:tn OR ‘ANGINOVAG’:tn OR ‘ANGIOCINE’:tn OR  ‘ANODESYN’:tn OR ‘ANSO’:tn OR ‘ANTINEURINA’:tn OR ‘ANTISETTICO ASTRINGENTE SEDATIVO’:tn  OR ‘ANTROLIN’:tn OR ‘ANUSOL’:tn OR ‘ARTHRYL’:tn OR ‘AUDELA’:tn OR ‘AURIGOUTTES’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 43/368   ‘AUROBIN’:tn OR ‘BOBODENT’:tn OR ‘BONJELA’:tn OR ‘BOOTS HAEMORRHOID RELIEF’:tn OR  ‘BRŪČU’:tn OR ‘BUCCOVERSO’:tn OR ‘BUCOMAX CON LIDOCAÍNA SABOR MENTA’:tn OR ‘CALGEL’:tn  OR ‘CARE HAEMORRHOID RELIEF’:tn OR ‘CATHEJELL’:tn OR ‘CEFAM’:tn OR ‘CEFAZOLINA’:tn OR  ‘CEFOTAXIMA’:tn OR ‘CEFOXITINA’:tn OR ‘CEFTRIAXON’:tn OR ‘CEFTRIAXONA IM NORMON’:tn OR  ‘CEFTRIAXONE’:tn OR ‘CHLORHYDRATE DE LIDOCAINE RENAUDIN’:tn OR ‘CLASTEON CON  LIDOCAINA’:tn OR ‘CLODRON’:tn OR ‘CODOTUSSYL’:tn OR ‘COLLUDOL’:tn OR ‘CORTANEST PLUS’:tn  OR ‘COVONIA THROAT SPRAY’:tn OR ‘DENELA’:tn OR ‘DENTINOX’:tn OR ‘DEPO MEDROL’:tn OR  ‘DEPOMEDROL+LIDOCAÏNE’:tn OR ‘DEPOMEDRONE WITH LIDOCAINE’:tn OR ‘DERMIDEX’:tn OR  ‘DERMOVAGISIL’:tn OR ‘DEVIPASTA’:tn OR ‘DIFOSFONAL CON LIDOCAINA’:t n OR ‘DOBEXIL H’:tn OR  ‘DOBEXIL  H UNG’:tn OR ‘DOLOCUPIN’:tn OR ‘DOLOKAIN’:tn OR ‘DOLOPROCT’:tn OR ‘DOXIPROCT’:tn  OR ‘EASYANGIN’:tn OR ‘EBRIMYCIN GÉL’:tn OR ‘ECOCAIN’:tn OR ‘EJACUPRÄ’:tn OR ‘ELAMAL’:tn OR  ‘ELIDOXIL’:tn OR ‘EMORRIL’:tn OR ‘ENVIL GARDŁO’:tn OR ‘EPICUTANTESTTROLAB D0403’:tn OR  ‘EUPHONYLL MAUX DE GORGE’:tn OR ‘FORTACIN’:tn OR ‘FOSFOCINA INTRAMUSCUAR’:tn OR  ‘FOSFORILASI’:tn OR ‘FUNIS’:tn OR ‘GARDIMAX MEDICA’:tn OR ‘GERMOLOIDS’:tn OR  ‘GOLASEPTINELIDOCAINE’:tn OR ‘HEMOSEDAN’:tn OR ‘HEPRO’:tn OR ‘HEWENEURAL’:tn OR ‘HUMEX  GORGE IRRITEE’:tn OR ‘HUMEX MAL DE GORGE’:tn OR ‘HYDROCORTISON RICHTER’:tn OR ‘IGLU’:tn  OR ‘INVERMA V’:tn OR ‘INZITAN’:tn OR ‘JELLIPROCT’:tn OR ‘LAMBDALINA’:tn OR ‘LARYNGOJET’:tn OR  ‘LEMOCIN’:tn OR ‘LEMOCIN GEGEN HALSSCHMERZEN’:tn OR ‘LEUKASE N’:tn OR ‘LIDO’:tn OR  ‘LIDOCAIN’:tn OR ‘LIDOCAINADRENALIN’:tn OR ‘LIDOCAINEGIS’:tn OR ‘LIDOCAINENGELHARD’:tn OR  ‘LIDOCAINHCL’:tn OR ‘LIDOCAINHUMAN’:tn OR ‘LIDOCAIN/ADRENALIN ORION’:tn OR ‘LIDOCAINA’:tn  OR ‘LIDOCAINE’:tn OR ‘LIDOCAINETCHAIKA’:tn OR ‘LIDOCAINE/PRILOCAINE’:tn OR  ‘LIDOCAINE/PRILOCAINE BIOGARAN’:tn OR ‘LIDOCAINEHYDROCHLORIDE  NEDERLAND B.V.’:tn OR  ‘LIDOCAINHYDROCHLORID’:tn OR ‘LIDOCAINĂ GRINDEKS’:tn OR ‘LIDOCARD’:tn OR ‘LIDOCATON’:tn  OR ‘LIDOCAÍNA HIPERBÁRICA’:tn OR ‘LIDOCAÏNEVASELINECRÈME 3% FNA TIOFARMA’:tn OR  ‘LIDOCORIT’:tn OR ‘LIDODEPOMEDROL’:tn OR ‘LIDOFAST’:tn OR ‘LIDOJECT’:tn OR ‘LIDOJECT SINE’:tn  OR ‘LIDOKAIN’:tn OR ‘LIDOKAINADRENALIN’:tn OR ‘LIDOKAINFLUORESCEIN CHAUVIN’:tn OR  ‘LIDOKAINMETAOXEDRIN’:tn OR ‘LIDOKAINNORADRENALIN’:tn OR ‘LIDOKAINKLORID’:tn OR  ‘LIDONOSTRUM’:tn OR ‘LIDOPOSTERIN’:tn OR ‘LIDOSEN’:tn OR ‘LIDRIAN’:tn OR ‘LIGNOCAIN  MELSUNGEN’:tn OR ‘LIGNOCAINUM’:tn OR ‘LIGNOSPAN’:tn OR ‘LIGNOX’:tn OR ‘LINCAÍNA’:tn OR  ‘LINISOL’:tn OR ‘LMX 4 LIDOCAINE’:tn OR ‘LUAN’:tn OR ‘LYSOCALMSPRAY’:tn OR ‘MAELILOZ HONING  & CITROEN’:tn OR ‘MAELILOZ MINT’:tn OR ‘MAELILOZ SINAASAPPEL’:tn OR ‘MEBUCAIN’:tn OR  ‘MEDICA COMPRIMES POUR LA GORGE’:tn OR ‘MEDICA HALSSPRAY’:tn OR ‘MEDICA  HALSTABLETTEN’:tn OR ‘MEDICA KEELSPRAY’:tn OR ‘MEDICA KEELTABLETTEN’:tn OR ‘MEDICA SPRAY  POUR LA GORGE’:tn OR ‘MEDIJEL’:tn OR ‘MESOCAINE’:tn OR ‘MILGAMMA N’:tn OR ‘MINIMS’:tn OR  ‘MODOLEX’:tn OR ‘MONOBIOS’:tn OR ‘MONOXAR’:tn OR ‘NEFLUAN’:tn OR ‘NEOAESCULAN’:tn OR  ‘NEOPROCT’:tn OR ‘NEUROMADE FUERTE’:tn OR ‘NIKLOD’:tn OR ‘NOLAID’:tn OR ‘OCTOCAINE’:tn OR  ‘ORAQIX’:tn OR ‘ORGASMUSSTOPPER’:tn OR ‘ORO RHINATHIOL CHLORHEXIDIN’:tn OR ‘ORO  RHINATHIOL DEQUALIN’:tn OR ‘OROCIL LIDO’:tn OR ‘OROFAR’:tn OR ‘OROFAR LIDOCAIN PERLEN’:tn  OR ‘OROFAR LIDOCAÏNE PARELS’:tn OR ‘OROFAR LIDOCAÏNE PERLES’:tn OR ‘OROFARL’:tn OR  ‘OROFORTE’:tn OR ‘ORTODERMINA’:tn OR ‘OSMOGEL’:tn OR ‘OTALGAN’:tn OR ‘OTIPAX’:tn OR  ‘OTIRELAX’:tn OR ‘PANOTILE’:tn OR ‘PARODONTAL’:tn OR ‘PAROTICIN’:tn OR ‘PASTA DEVITALIZZANTE  SENZA ARSENICO’:tn OR ‘PENISEJASTOP’:tn OR ‘PENISMARATHON N’:tn OR ‘PERINAL’:tn OR  ‘PHLOGOSAM HAB’:tn OR ‘PICILLIN’:tn OR ‘PIPERACILLINA DOROM’:tn OR ‘PIPERACILLINA E  TAZOBACTAM ’:tn OR ‘PLIAGLIS’:tn OR ‘PLIAPEL’:tn OR ‘POSTERISAN AKUT’:tn OR ‘PREMJACT’:tn OR  ‘PROCTO  HEMOLAN’:tn OR ‘PROCTOGLYVENOL’:tn OR ‘PROCTOHEMOLAN’:tn OR ‘PROCTOSYNALAR  N’:tn OR ‘PROCTOLIZIN’:tn OR ‘PRORHINEL MAL DE GORGE’:tn OR ‘PULPARTHROL’:tn OR  ‘PULPERYL’:tn OR ‘RALYDAN’:tn OR ‘RAPYDAN’:tn OR ‘RAPYDEN’:tn OR ‘RETARDIN’:tn OR  ‘RHEUMESSER’:tn OR ‘ROCEPHALIN’:tn OR ‘SAINSBURYS HAEMORRHOID RELIEF’:tn OR ‘SAINSBURYS     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 44/368   HAEMORRHOID RELIEF OINTMENT’:tn OR ‘SANAGELS’:tn OR ‘SAVLON BITES & STINGS PAIN  RELIEF’:tn OR ‘SEREKIS’:tn OR ‘SINDOLOR’:tn OR ‘STOMAGELS’:tn OR ‘STREPSILS’:tn OR  ‘STREPSILSPRAY’:tn OR ‘STUD 100’:tn OR ‘SULAGIL HALSSPRAY’:tn OR ‘SUPPOSITORIUM  HAEMORRHOIDALE’:tn OR ‘SUPPOSITORIUM HAEMORRHOIDALE F’:tn OR ‘SYNALAR RECTAL,  ASSOCIAÇÃO’:tn OR ‘SYNGEL (BEUTEL)’:tn OR ‘SYNGEL (FLACON)’:tn OR ‘SYNGEL (FLASCHE)’:tn OR  ‘SYNGEL FLACON’:tn OR ‘SYNGEL SACHETS’:tn OR ‘TAPIN’:tn OR ‘TEETHING’:tn OR ‘TERRAMYCINE  SOLU’:tn OR ‘TESCO HAEMORRHOID RELIEF’:tn OR ‘THERANAL’:tn OR ‘TITANOREIN’:tn OR  ‘TITANOREINE’:tn OR ‘TRACHILID’:tn OR ‘TRACHISAN’:tn OR ‘TRACHITOL’:tn OR ‘TRIANAL’:tn OR  ‘TROLAB E0403’:tn OR ‘TYROTHRICINE LIDOCAÏNE’:tn OR ‘ULTRAPROCT’:tn OR ‘ULTRAPROCT L’:tn OR  ‘UROMONT’:tn OR ‘VAGISIL’:tn OR ‘VELOCAINE’:tn OR ‘VERSATIS’:tn OR ‘VESSATIS’:tn OR  ‘VOCADYS’:tn OR ‘WILLANAL’:tn OR ‘X I L O N I B S A  COM EPINEFRINA’:tn OR ‘XILINĂ’:tn OR ‘XILO  MYNOL’:tn OR ‘XILONIBSA’:tn OR ‘XION’:tn OR ‘XOGEL’:tn OR ‘XYLANAEST’:tn OR ‘XYLANAEST  PURUM’:tn OR ‘XYLESTESINWITH ADRENALINE’:tn OR ‘XYLOCAINE’:tn OR ‘XYLOCITINCOR’:tn OR  ‘XYLOCITINLOC’:tn OR ‘XYLOCONTACT’:tn OR ‘XYLOCREAM’:tn OR ‘XYLODONT’:tn OR ‘XYLODREN  BROWN’:tn OR ‘XYLONEURAL’:tn OR ‘XYLONOR’:tn OR ‘XYLONOR NORADRENALINE’:tn OR ‘XYLONOR  NORADRENALINEE’:tn OR ‘XYLONOR PELLETS’:tn OR ‘XYLONOR SPECIAL’:tn OR ‘XYLONOR SPRAY’:tn  OR ‘XYLONOR WITH ADRENALINE’:tn OR ‘XYLOPLYIN DENTAL ADRENALIN’:tn OR ‘XYLOROLLAND AVEC  ADRÉNALINE’:tn OR ‘XYLOROLLAND SANS VASOCONSTRICTEUR’:tn OR ‘XYLOZAN’:tn OR ‘YRANOL  EUGENOLE’:tn OR ‘ZIACAINE’:tn OR ‘ZIAGEL ADULTE’:tn OR ‘ZIAGEL ENFANT’:tn OR ‘AKTEN’:tn OR  ‘ALVOGYL’:tn OR ‘ANAESTHETIC’:tn OR ‘ANAMANTLEHC’:tn OR ‘ANBESOL’:tn OR ‘ANETOCAINE’:tn OR  ‘ANGINOVAG’:tn OR ‘ANUSOL’:tn OR ‘ARITMAL’:tn OR ‘ARTHRYL’:tn OR ‘AUROBIN’:tn OR ‘BACTINE’:tn  OR ‘BETACAINE’:tn OR ‘BONJELA TEETHING GEL’:tn OR ‘BOOTS MOUTH ULCER’:tn OR ‘BORRAZAG’:tn  OR ‘BURN JEL PLUS’:tn OR ‘CALGEL’:tn OR ‘CEFAM’:tn OR ‘CITROLIN’:tn OR ‘COPHENYLCAINE  FORTE’:tn OR ‘CODOTUSSYL’:tn OR ‘COLLUNOSOL’:tn OR ‘DEPOMEDROL + LIDOCAINE’:tn OR  ‘DERMIDEX’:tn OR ‘DYNEXAN’:tn OR ‘EMLA’:tn OR ‘EMLAPATCH’:tn OR ‘EMORRIL’:tn OR ‘ESRACAIN’:tn  OR ‘FIRST BXN’:tn OR ‘FREEDOCAINE’:tn OR ‘INSTILLAGEL’:tn OR ‘JUVEDERM ULTRA PLUS XC’:tn OR  ‘JUVEDERM ULTRA XC’:tn OR ‘LEMOCIN’:tn OR ‘LIDO’:tn OR ‘LIDOCAIN’:tn OR  ‘LIDOCAINEHYDROCHLORIDE FRESENIUS BV’:tn OR ‘LIDODAN’:tn OR ‘LIDODERM’:tn OR ‘LMX 4’:tn OR  ‘LMX5’:tn OR ‘MEBUCAORANGE’:tn OR ‘NEURODOL’:tn OR ‘OCTOCAINE’:tn OR ‘OLIVES’:tn OR ‘ORA’:tn  OR ‘ORAQIX’:tn OR ‘OROFARL’:tn OR ‘OTIPAX’:tn OR ‘PANOTILE’:tn OR ‘PENLES’:tn OR ‘PLIAGLIS’:tn  OR ‘PREATTACHED LTA KIT’:tn OR ‘PREDATOR’:tn OR ‘PROCTOGLYVENOL’:tn OR ‘RAPIDOCAIN’:tn OR  ‘RETARDIN’:tn OR ‘SOLARCAINE’:tn OR ‘STREPSILS’:tn OR ‘SYNERA’:tn OR ‘THERANAL’:tn OR  ‘TITANOREINE’:tn OR ‘TRACHISAN’:tn OR ‘TRIANAL’:tn OR ‘ULTRAPROCT’:tn OR ‘VAGISIL’:tn OR  ‘VERSATIS’:tn OR ‘XYLESTESINA’:tn OR ‘XYLOCAIN’:tn OR ‘XYLOCAINA’:tn OR ‘XYLOCAINE’:tn OR  ‘XYLOCAINEMPF’:tn OR ‘XYLOCARD’:tn OR ‘XYLOCITIN’:tn OR ‘XYLOCONTACT’:tn OR ‘XYLONOR’:tn OR  ‘XYLOPROCT’:tn OR ‘YOUPATCH’:tn OR ‘ZCAINE’:tn OR ‘ZIACAINE’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp  OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 45/368   reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   11. Sodium Chloride   ‘SODIUM CHLORIDE’ OR ‘CLORURĂ DE SODIU’ OR ‘CHLORURE DE SODIUM’ OR ‘CLORETO DE SÓDIO’  OR ‘NATRII CHLORIDUM’ OR ‘SODU CHLOREK’ OR ‘SODIUM CHLORID’ OR ‘NATRIUM CHLORATUM’ OR  ‘CLORURO DI SODIO’ OR ‘NATRIUMCHLORID’ OR ‘CLORURĂ DE SODIU’ OR ‘NATRII CHLORIDUM’ OR  ‘NATRIUMKLORID’ OR ‘NATRIJEV KLORID’ OR ‘CHLORID SODNÝ’ OR ‘NATRII CHLORIDUM’ OR  ‘CLORURA DE SODIU’ OR ‘CLORURĂ DE SODIU’ OR ‘CLORETO DE SÓDIO’ OR ‘SODU CHLOREK’ OR  ‘CHLOREK SODU’ OR ‘NATRIUMKLORID’ OR ‘SODIUM CHLORIDE’ OR ‘NATRIUM CHLORID’ OR  ‘NATRIAAM CHLORIDE’ OR ‘NATRIUM CHLORIDE’ OR ‘NATRIUMCHLORIDE’ OR ‘SODIUM CHLORIDE’ OR  ‘KLORUR TASSODJU’ OR ‘NATRIJA HLORIDS’ OR ‘NĀTRIJA HLORĪDU’ OR ‘NĀTRIJA HLORĪDS’ OR  ‘NATRIO CHLORIDO’ OR ‘NATRIO CHLORIDAS’ OR ‘NATRII CHLORIDUM’ OR ‘CLORURO SODICO’ OR  ‘SODIO CLORURO’ OR ‘CLORURO DI SODIO’ OR ‘NATRÍUMKLÓRÍÐ’ OR ‘NATRIUMKLÓRÍÐ’ OR  ‘NATRIUMKLORID’ OR ‘NATRÍUM KLÓRÍÐ’ OR ‘NATRIUM KLORID’ OR ‘NÁTRIUM KLORID’ OR  ‘NÁTRIUMKLORID’ OR ‘NÁTRIUM KLORID’ OR ‘NATRIJEV KLORID’ OR ‘SODIUM CHLORIDE’ OR  ‘CHLORURE DE SODIUM’ OR ‘SODIUM (CHLORURE DE)’ OR ‘SODIUM CHLORIDE’ OR ‘NATRÍUMKLÓRÍÐ’  OR ‘NATRIUMKLORIDI’ OR ‘NATRIUMKLORIDIA’ OR ‘NAATRIUMKLORIIDI’ OR ‘NAATRIUMKLORIID’ OR  ‘CLORURO DE SODIO’ OR ‘CLORURO SODICO’ OR ‘CLORETO DE SÓDIO’ OR ‘CLORURO SÓDICO’ OR  ‘NATRIUMCHLORID’ OR ‘KOCHSALZ’ OR ‘NATRIUM CHLORID’ OR ‘NATRIUMKLORID’ OR  ‘NATRIUMCHLORID’ OR ‘SUROVÝ CHLORID SODNÝ’ OR ‘NATRII CHLORIDUM’ OR ‘CHLORID SODNÝ’ OR  ‘CHORID SODNÝ’ OR ‘2,5% GLUCOSE + 0,45% SODIUM CHLORIDE FRESENIUS’ OR ‘ACCUSOL’:tn  OR ‘  ACTOLAXAN’:tn  OR ‘ ACUOLENS’:tn  OR ‘ ADDEX’:tn  OR ‘ ADDEXNATRIUMKLORID’:tn  OR ‘ AKE 1100  MIT XYLIT’:tn  OR ‘ ALMORA’:tn  OR ‘ ALVESIN’:tn  OR ‘ ALYOSTAL’:tn  OR ‘ AMIDOLITE’:tn  OR ‘  AMINODIAL 1,1% BIOPHARM’:tn  OR ‘ AMINOMEL’:tn  OR ‘ AMINOMIX’:tn  OR ‘ AMINOVEN’:tn  OR ‘  APIROSERUM CLORURADO HIPERTÓNICO’:tn  OR ‘ APIROSERUM GLUCOSALINO’:tn  OR ‘ ARTISAL’:tn   OR ‘ ATOLAXANT’:tn  OR ‘ BACTERIOSTATIC SALINE FOR INJECTION PFIZER’:tn  OR ‘ BALANCE’:tn  OR ‘  BALANSOL’:tn  OR ‘ BALS’:tn  OR ‘ BASALFLEX’:tn  OR ‘ BICANOVA’:tn  OR ‘ BICAVERA’:tn  OR ‘  BILIFALK’:tn  OR ‘ BIONOLYTE’:tn  OR ‘ BIPHOZYL’:tn  OR ‘ BOOTS ORAL REHYDRATION TREATMENT’:tn   OR ‘ CAPD’:tn  OR ‘ CAPD/ DPCA’:tn  OR ‘ CAPD/DPCA’:tn  OR ‘ CARDIBRAUN MANTENIMIENTO’:tn  OR ‘  CASENGLICOL’:tn  OR ‘ CB 30PLUR’:tn  OR ‘ CHLORURE DE SODIUM’:tn  OR ‘ CHLORURE SODIQUE’:tn   OR ‘ CITORSAL’:tn  OR ‘ CLINIMIX’:tn  OR ‘ CLINIMIX N9G15E’:tn  OR ‘ CLINOMEL’:tn  OR ‘ CLINOMEL  N6900’:tn  OR ‘ CLORETO DE POTÁSSIO + CLORETO DE SÓDIO’:tn  OR ‘ CLORETO DE POTÁSSIO +  GLUCOSE + CLORETO DE SÓDIO’:tn  OR ‘ CLORETO DE POTÁSSIO E CLORETO DE SÓDIO’:tn  OR ‘  CLORETO DE SÓDIO’:tn  OR ‘ CLORETO DE SÓDIO, VIAFLO ’:tn  OR ‘ CLORURA DE SODIU’:tn  OR ‘  CLORURO POTÁSICO EN FISIOLÓGICO’:tn  OR ‘ CLORURO SÓDICO’:tn  OR ‘ CLORURO SÓDICO,  VIAFLEX ’:tn  OR ‘ CLORURO SÓDICO, VIAFLO ’:tn  OR ‘ CLORURĂ DE SODIU’:tn  OR ‘ COLIRCUSI  ANTIEDEMA’:tn  OR ‘ COLIRCUSI HUMECTANTE’:tn  OR ‘ COLIREI’:tn  OR ‘ COLOFALK’:tn  OR ‘  COLOFORT’:tn  OR ‘ COLONSOFT’:tn  OR ‘ COLONSTERIL’:tn  OR ‘ COLOPEG’:tn  OR ‘ COLOSOL’:tn  OR ‘  COMPENSAL’:tn  OR ‘ COMPOUND MACROGOL’:tn  OR ‘ COMPOUND SODIUM LACTAT’:tn  OR ‘  COMPOUND SODIUM LACTATE, INTRAVENOUS INFUSION BP’:tn  OR ‘ COSMOCOL’:tn  OR ‘ CURAPEG’:tn   OR ‘ CUSTODIOL’:tn  OR ‘ D.P.C.A’:tn  OR ‘ D.P.C.A.’:tn  OR ‘ DARMSPÜLPULVER BERNBURG ZUR  ANWENDUNG BEI ERWACHSENEN ZUR ORTHOGRADEN DARMSPÜLUNG’:tn  OR ‘ DARROWGLUKOSE’:tn   OR ‘ DELCOPREP’:tn  OR ‘ DELTAJONIN’:tn  OR ‘ DEXTRAN 40 100G/L IN SOLUTIE DE CLORURA DE  SODIU’:tn  OR ‘ DEXTRAN 70, 60 G/L ÎN SOLUTIE DE CLORURA DE SODIU’:tn  OR ‘ DEXTRION’:tn  OR ‘  DEXTROLYTE’:tn  OR ‘ DEXTROSE (GLUCOSE) MONOHYDRATE BP, SODIUM CHLORIDE BP, POTASSIUM     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 46/368   CHLORIDE BP, SODIUM CITRATE DIHYDRATE BP AND ANHYDROUS CITRIC ACID GRANULES FOR ORAL  SOLUTION’:tn  OR ‘ DILUANT H.S.A. STALLERGENES’:tn  OR ‘ DILUANT PHYSIOLOGIQUE PHENOLE A  STALLERGENES’:tn  OR ‘ DIORALYTE’:tn  OR ‘ DIORALYTE BLACKCURRANT’:tn  OR ‘ DIORALYTE  RELIEF’:tn  OR ‘ DISDOCCOL ORANGE LEMON AND LIME FLAVOUR’:tn  OR ‘ DUOSOL’:tn  OR ‘  ELAXIGOL’:tn  OR ‘ ELECTROLADE BLACKCURRANT’:tn  OR ‘ ELECTROLYTE FRESENIUS’:tn  OR ‘  ELEKTROLYT’:tn  OR ‘ ELEKTROLYTINFUSIONSLÖSUNG’:tn  OR ‘ ELETTROLITICA  EQUILIBRATA   GASTRICA BIOINDUSTRIA L.I.M.’:tn  OR ‘ ELETTROLITICA BILANCIATA DI MANTENIMENTO’:tn  OR ‘  ELETTROLITICA DI MANTENIMENTO CON GLUCOSIO’:tn  OR ‘ ELETTROLITICA DI REINTEGRAZIONE’:tn   OR ‘ ELETTROLITICA EQUILIBRATA ENTERICA’:tn  OR ‘ ELETTROLITICA REIDRATANTE’:tn  OR ‘  ELETTROLITICA SELETTIVA LDB’:tn  OR ‘ ELOMEL BASIS MIT GLUCOSE’:tn  OR ‘ ELOMEL ISOTON’:tn  OR  ‘ ELOMEL OP (POSTOPERATIV)’:tn  OR ‘ ELOMEL OP (POSTOPERATIV) G’:tn  OR ‘ ELOMEL SEMITON MIT  GLUCOSE’:tn  OR ‘ ENDOFALK’:tn  OR ‘ ENDOFALK CLASSIC’:tn  OR ‘ ENDOPEG’:tn  OR ‘ EPIPEN’:tn  OR ‘  EQUIBALANCE’:tn  OR ‘ EQUIHES ECOBAG’:tn  OR ‘ EQUIHES ECOFLAC PLUS’:tn  OR ‘  ESTEROFUNDINA’:tn  OR ‘ EVACUANTE SIMPLE’:tn  OR ‘ EXTRANEAL’:tn  OR ‘ EXTRANEAL,  CLEARFLEX’:tn  OR ‘ EYESALT’:tn  OR ‘ FENURIL’:tn  OR ‘ FISIOLÓGICO’:tn  OR ‘ FIXIONEAL 35,  CLEARFLEX’:tn  OR ‘ FIXIONEAL 40, CLEARFLEX’:tn  OR ‘ FLUOSELGINE’:tn  OR ‘ FORTRANS’:tn  OR ‘  FORTRANS, ASSOCIAÇÃO’:tn  OR ‘ FYZIOLOGICKÝ ROZTOK, VIAFLO ’:tn  OR ‘ FÓRMULA D5’:tn  OR ‘  FÓRMULA E2’:tn  OR ‘ FÓRMULA E4’:tn  OR ‘ GANGIDEN’:tn  OR ‘ GARGARIN’:tn  OR ‘ GASTROLIT’:tn  OR ‘  GELAFUNDIN ISO’:tn  OR ‘ GELAFUNDINA’:tn  OR ‘ GELAFUSAL’:tn  OR ‘ GELASPAN’:tn  OR ‘  GELOFUSIN’:tn  OR ‘ GELOFUSINE’:tn  OR ‘ GELOPLASMA’:tn  OR ‘ GEM’:tn  OR ‘ GLANDOSANE’:tn  OR ‘  GLEXAR’:tn  OR ‘ GLICEROLO CON SODIO CLORURO’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCAL’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCIDION G 10’:tn  OR ‘  GLUCIDION G 5’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCION’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOPET’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOHALAL’:tn  OR ‘  GLUCOPOLIELECTROLITICA NORMALIZADA, CLEARFLEX ’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOS’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSA EN  CLORURO DE SODIO ’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSA EN CLORURO SODICO, VIAFLEX ’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSA Y  CLORURO SÓDICO, VIAFLO ’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSADO EN SALINO FISIOLÓGICO ’:tn  OR ‘  GLUCOSALINA’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSALINO BRAUN’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSALINO FRESENIUS’:tn  OR ‘  GLUCOSALINO HIPERTÓNICO’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSALINO HIPOSSÓDICO BRAUN’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSALINO  HIPOSÓDICO’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSALINO SERRACLINICS’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSAMINA SOLFATO’:tn  OR ‘  GLUCOSE  NATRIUMCHLORIDE ’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSE & SODIUM CHLORIDE ’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSE +  NACL’:tn   OR ‘ GLUCOSE + NACL + KCL ’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSE + NACL’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSE + NACL ’:tn  OR ‘  GLUCOSE + NACL, VIAFLO ’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSE + SODIUM CHLORIDE ’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSE 5%+SODIUM  CHLORIDE 0.9% BIOPHARM’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSE AND SODIUM CHLORIDE IN WATER FOR INJECTION  FRESENIUS’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSE COM CLORETO DE SÓDIO BASI’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSE COM CLORETO DE  SÓDIO LABESFAL’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSE COM CLORETO DE SÓDIO PARACÉLSIA’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSE EN  NATRIUMCHLORIDE DIRINCO’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSE ET CHLORURE DE SODIUM’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSE IN HALF  STRENGTH HARTMANNS ’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSE MIT NATRIUMCHLORID’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSE  NATRIUMCHLORIDE ’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSENAK ’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSI + NATRII CHLORATI, VIAFLO ’:tn  OR ‘  GLUCOSI ET NATRII CHLORATI ’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSIO CON SODIO CLORURO’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSIO E  SODIO CLORURO’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSTERIL’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSUM ET NATRIUM CHLORATUM 1:1  FRESENIUS’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSUM ET NATRIUM CHLORATUM 2:1 FRESENIUS’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOVEN  INFANT’:tn  OR ‘ GLUKOS BUFFRAD’:tn  OR ‘ GLUKOS MED NA40 + K20 BRAUN’:tn  OR ‘ GLUKOSALINA  I’:tn OR ‘ GLUKOSALINA III’:tn  OR ‘ GLYCEROSTERIL’:tn  OR ‘ GLYCEROSTERIL 10 %’:tn  OR ‘  GOTUSAL’:tn  OR ‘ HAEMOFILTRATION SOLUTION Ε2’:tn  OR ‘ HAES STERIL’:tn  OR ‘ HAESSTERIL’:tn  OR  ‘ HARTMANN’:tn  OR ‘ HARTMANN’:tn  OR ‘ HARTMANN, RINGER LACTADA, VIAFLO’:tn  OR ‘ HARTMANN,  VIAFLO’:tn  OR ‘ HARTMANNOVA RAZTOPINA’:tn  OR ‘ HARTMANN´S SOLUTION BP FRESENIUS’:tn  OR ‘  HARTMANNŮV ROZTOK BP BRAUN’:tn  OR ‘ HARTMANNŮV, VIAFLO’:tn  OR ‘ HARTMANNS SOLUTION  COMPOUND SODIUM LACTATE’:tn  OR ‘ HD1PLUS’:tn  OR ‘ HDF 501/BIC’:tn  OR ‘ HEMOHES’:tn  OR ‘  HEMOLACTOL’:tn  OR ‘ HEMOSOL LG2’:tn  OR ‘ HEMOSOL LG4’:tn  OR ‘ HEPARIN SODIUM BP + SODIUM     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 47/368   CHLORIDE’:tn  OR ‘ HES HIPERTÓNICO’:tn  OR ‘ HESRA’:tn  OR ‘ HF 12’:tn  OR ‘ HF 23’:tn  OR ‘  HIDRATHEA’:tn  OR ‘ HOSPASOL’:tn  OR ‘ HYDRAPERF’:tn  OR ‘ HYDRERINGSVÆSKE’:tn  OR ‘  HYPERHAES’:tn  OR ‘ HYPERHES’:tn  OR ‘ HYPOTONAX 48’:tn  OR ‘ INFUKOLL’:tn  OR ‘ INFUPLAS’:tn  OR ‘  INFUSIO NATRII CHLORATI’:tn  OR ‘ INFUSIO RINGERI’:tn  OR ‘ INFUSOL’:tn  OR ‘INJ.  NATRIICHLORATI’:tn  OR ‘ INJECTIO NATRII CHLORATI ISOTONICA’:tn  OR ‘ INTRAFUSIN’:tn  OR ‘  INZOLEN INFUSIO E’:tn  OR ‘ INZOLENINFANTIBUS’:tn  OR ‘ INZOLEN INFUSIO SINE KALIUM’:tn  OR ‘  INZOLEN – HK’:tn  OR ‘ INZOLEN KM 21’:tn  OR ‘ IONITAN’:tn  OR ‘ IONLYTE’:tn  OR ‘ IONOLYTE’:tn  OR ‘  IONOSTERIL’:tn  OR ‘ IONOVEN’:tn  OR ‘ ISOFUNDIN’:tn  OR ‘ ISOFUNDINE’:tn  OR ‘ ISOFUSIN’:tn  OR ‘  ISOGELO’:tn  OR ‘ ISOHES’:tn  OR ‘ ISOLYTE’:tn  OR ‘ ISOMOL’:tn  OR ‘ ISOPEG’:tn  OR ‘ ISOPLASMAL  G’:tn OR ‘ ISOPRENALINESULFAAT ’:tn  OR ‘ ISOTONE KOCHSALZLÖSUNG’:tn  OR ‘ ISOTONE  KOCHSALZLÖSUNG ’:tn  OR ‘ ISOTONE NATRIUMCHLORIDLÖSUNG’:tn  OR ‘ ISOTONE  NATRIUMCHLORIDLÖSUNG’:tn  OR ‘ ISOTONE NATRIUMCHLORIDLÖSUNG’:tn  OR ‘ ISOTONISCHE  KOCHSALZLÖSUNG’:tn  OR ‘ ISOTONISCHE NATRIUMCHLORID AVITUM’:tn  OR ‘ ISOTONISCHE  NATRIUMCHLORID BERLINCHEMIE’:tn  OR ‘ ISOTONISCHE NATRIUMCHLORID DEMO’:tn  OR ‘  ISOTONISCHE NATRIUMCHLORIDLÖSUNG’:tn  OR ‘ ISOTONISCHE NATRIUMCHLORIDLÖSUNG   AVITUM’:tn  OR ‘ ISOTONISCHE NATRIUMCHLORIDLÖSUNG JENAPHARM’:tn  OR ‘ ISOVOL’:tn  OR ‘  IZETAFIN/RAFARM’:tn  OR ‘ JONOSTERIL’:tn  OR ‘ KALII CHLORIDUM + NATRII CHLORIDUM’:tn  OR ‘  KALII CHLORIDUM/NATRII CHLORIDUM’:tn  OR ‘ KALILACTASOL’:tn  OR ‘ KALIUMNATRIUMGLUCOSE  BRAUN’:tn  OR ‘ KALIUMNATRIUMGLUCOSE’:tn  OR ‘ KALIUMNATRIUMGLUCOSE ’:tn  OR ‘  KALIUMNATRIUMGLUKOSE’:tn  OR ‘ KALIUMNATRIUMKLORID’:tn  OR ‘  KALIUMCHLORID/NATRIUMCHLORID’:tn  OR ‘ KALIUMCHLORIDE + NATRIUMCHLORIDE’:tn  OR ‘  KALIUMCHLORIDE NATRIUMCHLORIDE’:tn  OR ‘ KALIUMCHLORIDE NATRIUMCHLORIDE’:tn  OR ‘  KARBASAL’:tn  OR ‘ KARBOLYTT’:tn  OR ‘ KCL 0,15% W/V + NACL 0,9% W/V’:tn  OR ‘ KCL + NACL’:tn   OR ‘KIDIAMIX G’:tn  OR ‘ KINDERLAX’:tn  OR ‘ KLEANPREP’:tn  OR ‘ KLEANPREP ASSOCIAÇÃO’:tn  OR ‘  KOCHSALZ’:tn  OR ‘ KOCHSALZLÖSUNG FRESENIUS’:tn  OR ‘ KOCHSALZLÖSUNG’:tn  OR ‘  LACRIMALFA’:tn  OR ‘ LACROFARM’:tn  OR ‘ LACTASOL’:tn  OR ‘ LACTATED RINGERS INJECTION’:tn  OR ‘  LACTATED RINGERS’:tn  OR ‘ LACTATO DE RINGER’:tn  OR ‘ LACTATO DE RINGER’:tn  OR ‘ LACTATO DE  RINGER MEIN ESPANA S.A.U.’:tn  OR ‘ LACTATO DE RINGER, VIAFLO’:tn  OR ‘ LACTATO RINGER  BIOMENDI’:tn  OR ‘ LARMABAK’:tn  OR ‘ LARMES ARTIFICIELLES’:tn  OR ‘ LAXABON’:tn  OR ‘  LAXAGOL’:tn  OR ‘ LAXAGOL ORANGE AUDEN MCKENZIE’:tn  OR ‘ LAXATEV’:tn  OR ‘ LAXATEV  PAEDIATRIC’:tn  OR ‘ LAXIDO’:tn  OR ‘ LAXIRIVA’:tn  OR ‘ LAXOGLAM’:tn  OR ‘ LAXOGOL’:tn  OR ‘ LAXTRA  NEUTRAAL’:tn  OR ‘ LAXTRA ORANGE’:tn  OR ‘ MACILAX’:tn  OR ‘ MACRODEX MED NATRIUMKLORID’:tn   OR ‘ MACROGOL + ELECTROLYTES’:tn  OR ‘ MACROGOL + ELEKTROLYTES’:tn  OR ‘ MACROGOL 3350 EN  ELEKTROLYTEN NATUREL TRAMEDICO’:tn  OR ‘ MACROGOL 3350POTASSIUM CHLORIDESODIUM  CHLORIDESODIUM HYDROGEN CARBONATE ABZ’:tn  OR ‘ MACROGOL 3350POTASSIUM  CHLORIDESODIUM CHLORIDESODIUM HYDROGEN CARBONATE ’:tn  OR ‘ MACROGOL AL’:tn  OR ‘  MACROGOL ALISSA HEALTHCARE’:tn  OR ‘ MACROGOL CHANELLE MEDICAL’:tn  OR ‘ MACROGOL’:tn  OR  ‘ MACROLYTE’:tn  OR ‘ MAGENTEROL’:tn  OR ‘MANIT’:tn  OR ‘ MANIT ELEKTROLITI’:tn  OR ‘ MANNITOLO  E SODIO CLORURO GALENICA SENESE’:tn  OR ‘MEDNUTRIFLEX’:tn  OR ‘MEDNUTRIFLEX’:tn  OR ‘  METPET’:tn  OR ‘MINIPLASCO’:tn  OR ‘ MINIMS ARTIFICIAL TEARS’:tn  OR ‘ MINIMS SALINE’:tn  OR ‘  MIXAMIN GLUCOS’:tn  OR ‘ MIXAMIN GLUKOZA’:tn  OR ‘MOLAXOLE’:tn  OR ‘ MOLAXOLE PULBERE  PENTRU SOLUŢIE ORALĂ’:tn  OR ‘ MONOSOL’:tn  OR ‘ MOVICOL’:tn  OR ‘ MOVICOLON NATUREL’:tn  OR ‘  MOVILIEF’:tn  OR ‘MOVILIEF PAEDIATRIC’:tn  OR ‘MOVOLAX 13.7 G POUDRE POUR SOLUTION’:tn  OR  ‘MOVOLAX’:tn  OR ‘ MOXALOLE’:tn  OR ‘ MULTIBIC’:tn  OR ‘ MULTILAC’:tn  OR ‘MULTILARM’:tn  OR ‘ NACL  + GLUCOSE ’:tn  OR ‘ NACL + GLUCOSE, VIAFLO’:tn  OR ‘ NACL 0,9 %, CLEARFLEX ’:tn  OR ‘ NACL  MINIPLASCO’:tn  OR ‘ NACL MINIPLASCO’:tn  OR ‘ NACL, CLEARFLEX ’:tn  OR ‘ NATIRUMKLORID’:tn  OR ‘  NATR. CHLORID ORION’:tn  OR ‘ NATR. CHLORID. ORION’:tn  OR ‘ NATRII CHLORIDI INFUNDIBILE’:tn   OR ‘ NATRIJKLORID HRVATSKI ZAVOD ZA TRANSFUZIJSKU MEDICINU’:tn  OR ‘ NATRIJEV KLORID’:tn      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 48/368   OR ‘ NATRIJEV KLORID, VIAFLO AGMARD’:tn  OR ‘ NATRIUMCHLORIDKONZENTRAT FRESENIUS’:tn  OR ‘  NATRIUMCHLORID, VIAFLO ’:tn  OR ‘ NATRIUMCHLORIDINFUSIONSLÖSUNG 154’:tn  OR ‘  NATRIUMCHLORIDLÖSUNG’:tn  OR ‘ NATRIUMCHLORIDTRÄGERLÖSUNG BERNBURG’:tn  OR ‘  NATRIUMCHLORIDE, CLEARFLEX ’:tn  OR ‘ NATRIUMCHLORIDE, VIAFLO ’:tn  OR ‘ NATRIUMKLORID  ABCUR’:tn  OR ‘ NATRIUMKLORID ’:tn  OR ‘ NATRIUMKLORID ’:tn  OR ‘ NATRIUMKLORID BRAUN’:tn  OR ‘  NATRIUMKLORID CUM GLUCOS BRAUN’:tn  OR ‘ NATRIUMKLORID EVOLAN’:tn  OR ‘ NATRIUMKLORID  ’:tn OR ‘ NATRIUMKLORID ISOTONISK’:tn  OR ‘ NATRIUMKLORID ISOTONISK DAK’:tn  OR ‘  NATRIUMKLORID MEDA’:tn  OR ‘ NATRIUMKLORID NORIDEM’:tn  OR ‘ NATRIUMKLORID, VIAFLO ’:tn  OR  ‘ NATRIUMKLORIDGLUCOS, VIAFLO ’:tn  OR ‘ NATRIUMKLORIDGLUCOSE BRAUN’:tn  OR ‘  NATRIUMKLORIDGLUKOSE ISOTONISK’:tn  OR ‘ NEGATIVKONTROLLE BEIM PRICKTEST’:tn  OR ‘  NEGATIVKONTROLLE BEIM PROVOKATIONSTEST’:tn  OR ‘ NISITA’:tn  OR ‘ NORMHYDRAL’:tn  OR ‘  NORMOFUNDIN’:tn  OR ‘ NORMOFUNDINA CON POTASIO’:tn  OR ‘ NORMOLYT’:tn  OR ‘ NORMOLYT FÜR  KINDER’:tn  OR ‘ NUTRADEX MED GLUCOS’:tn  OR ‘ NUTRIFLEX 40/80 GE’:tn  OR ‘ NUTRIFLEX BASAL’:tn   OR ‘ NUTRIFLEX LIPID ESPECIAL’:tn  OR ‘ NUTRIFLEX LIPID PERI’:tn  OR ‘ NUTRIFLEX LIPID PLUS’:tn   OR ‘ NUTRIFLEX LIPID SPECIAL’:tn  OR ‘ NUTRIFLEX OMEGA’:tn  OR ‘ NUTRIFLEX PERI’:tn  OR ‘  NUTRINEAL’:tn  OR ‘ NUTRIPERI LIPID’:tn  OR ‘ NUTRIPLUS OMEGA’:tn  OR ‘ NUTRISPECIAL OMEGA’:tn   OR ‘ NÁRTIUMKLORID’:tn  OR ‘ NÁTRIUMKLORID ’:tn  OR ‘ NÁTRIUMKLORID ’:tn  OR ‘ NÁTRIUMKLORID  BRAUN’:tn  OR ‘ NÁTRIUMKLORID FRESENIUS’:tn  OR ‘OFTALMOLOSA CUSI ANTIEDEMA’:tn  OR ‘  OLOPEG’:tn  OR ‘ OMNICOL’:tn  OR ‘ ORALPÄDON APFELBANANE’:tn  OR ‘ ORALPÄDON ERDBEERE’:tn  OR  ‘ ORALPÄDON NEUTRAL’:tn  OR ‘ OSMOTAN G’:tn  OR ‘ OXOFERIN’:tn  OR ‘ PAEDIATRISCHE  ELEKTROLYTLOESUNG II’:tn  OR ‘ PEDIAVEN G’:tn  OR ‘ PEDIAVEN G20’:tn  OR ‘ PEDIAVEN G25’:tn  OR ‘  PEDIAVEN GLUCOSE’:tn  OR ‘ PEDIAVEN NN2’:tn  OR ‘ PEDIAVEN STARTUP’:tn  OR ‘ PERFADEX’:tn  OR ‘  PERFLUX’:tn  OR ‘ PERIFLEX’:tn  OR ‘ PERINUTRIFLEX LIPIDE G 64/N 4,6/E’:tn  OR ‘ PERIPLASMAL XE’:tn   OR ‘ PERITODIAL DUO GLUCOSE’:tn  OR ‘ PERITODIAL GLUCOSE’:tn  OR ‘ PERITONEAL DIALYSIS  SOLUTION’:tn  OR ‘ PERUSLIUOSK’:tn  OR ‘ PHYSIOLOGICASOL’:tn  OR ‘ PHYSIOLOGISCHE  KOCHSALZLÖSUNG FRESENIUS’:tn  OR ‘ PHYSIONEAL 35’:tn  OR ‘ PHYSIONEAL 40’:tn  OR ‘  PHYSIORHINE’:tn  OR ‘ PLASMA VOLUME, REDIBAG’:tn  OR ‘ PLASMALYTE 148’:tn  OR ‘ PLASMALYT’:tn   OR ‘ PLASMALYTE’:tn  OR ‘ PLASMALYTE 4 G5, VIAFLO’:tn  OR ‘ PLASMALYTE A, VIAFLO’:tn  OR ‘  PLASMALYTE, VIAFLO’:tn  OR ‘ PLASMAVOLUME REDIBAG’:tn  OR ‘ PLASMION’:tn  OR ‘ PLASMODEX’:tn   OR ‘ PLASTAPYR FISIOLOGICO  ESPANA S.A.U.’:tn  OR ‘ PLASTAPYR GLUCOSALINO’:tn  OR ‘  PLEGISOL’:tn  OR ‘ PLYN JELITOWY ZAPOBIEGAWCZY IZOTONICZNY’:tn  OR ‘ PLYN ZOLADKOWY  ZAPOBIEGAWCZY IZOTONICZNY’:tn  OR ‘ POLYIONIQUE B27’:tn  OR ‘ POLYIONIQUE B46 APHP’:tn  OR ‘  POLYIONIQUE B66 APHP’:tn  OR ‘ POLYIONIQUE FORMULE 1A G5’:tn  OR ‘ POLYIONIQUE FORMULE 2A  G10’:tn  OR ‘ POLYIONIQUE G 10’:tn  OR ‘ POLYIONIQUE G 5’:tn  OR ‘ POLYIONIQUE GLUCOSÉE ’:tn  OR ‘  POLYIONIQUE GLUKOSE’:tn  OR ‘ POLYIONISCHE GLUCOSE’:tn  OR ‘ POTASIO EN CLORURO DE SODIO  GRIFOLS’:tn  OR ‘ POTASIO EN GLUCOSA Y CLORURO DE SODIO GRIFOLS’:tn  OR ‘ POTASIO G.E.S.’:tn   OR ‘ POTASIO PREDILUIDO EN FISIOLÓGICO ’:tn  OR ‘ POTASSIUM CHLORIDE & SODIUM CHLORIDE  ’:tn OR ‘ POTASSIUM CHLORIDE + SODIUM CHLORIDE ’:tn  OR ‘ POTASSIUM CHLORIDE AND SODIUM  CHLORIDE ’:tn  OR ‘ POTASSIUM CHLORIDE ’:tn  OR ‘ POTASSIUM CHLORIDE SODIUM CHLORIDE BP AS  STERIFLEX NO. 28 AND FREEFLEX ’:tn  OR ‘ POTASSIUM CHLORIDE SODIUM CHLORIDE GLUCOSE BP  AS STERIFLEX NO. 14 OR FREEFLEX ’:tn  OR ‘ POTASSIUM CHLORIDE SODIUM CHLORIDE’:tn  OR  ‘POTASSIUM CHLORIDE SODIUM CHLORIDE’:tn  OR ‘ POTASSIUM CHLORIDE, SODIUM CHLORIDE ,  GLUCOSE’:tn  OR ‘ POTASSIUM CHLORIDE, SODIUM CHLORIDE AND GLUCOSE ’:tn  OR ‘ POTASSIUM  CHLORIDE, SODIUM CHLORIDE AND GLUCOSE, VIAFLO ’:tn  OR ‘ POTASSIUM CHLORIDE, SODIUM  CHLORIDE BP AS STERIFLEX NO 15 OR FREEFLEX’:tn  OR ‘ POTASSIUM CHLORIDE, SODIUM CHLORIDE  BP AS STERIFLEX NO. 12 OR FREEFLEX’:tn  OR ‘ POTASSIUM CHLORIDE, SODIUM CHLORIDE’:tn  OR ‘  POTASSIUM CHLORIDE, SODIUM CHLORIDE’:tn  OR ‘ POTASSIUM CHLORIDE, SODIUM CHLORIDE,  GLUCOSE BP AS STERIFLEX NO. 30 AND FREEFLEX’:tn  OR ‘ POTASSIUM CHLORIDE, SODIUM     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 49/368   CHLORIDE, GLUCOSE BP, AS STERIFLEX NO. 17 OR FREEFLEX’:tn  OR ‘ POTASSIUM CHLORIDE,  SODIUM CHLORIDE, GLUCOSE’:tn  OR ‘POTASSIUM CHLORIDE/ SODIUM CHLORIDE FRESENIUS’:tn  OR  ‘PRIOSOL’:tn  OR ‘PURPREP’:tn  OR ‘PÄDIAFUSIN I’:tn  OR ‘PÄDIAFUSIN II’:tn  OR ‘PÄDIAFUSIN OP’:tn   OR ‘PÄDIATRISCHE ELEKTROLYTLÖSUNG 1’:tn  OR ‘PÄDIATRISCHE ELEKTROLYTLÖSUNG 2’:tn  OR  ‘PŁYN FIZJOLOGICZNY WIELOELEKTROLITOWY IZOTONICZNY ’:tn  OR ‘PŁYN FIZJOLOGICZNY  WIELOELEKTROLITOWY IZOTONICZNY FRESENIUS’:tn  OR ‘PŁYN NAWADNIAJĄCY INTERWENCYJNY  HIPOTONICZNY ’:tn  OR ‘PŁYN PEDIATRYCZNY WYRÓWNAWCZY’:tn  OR ‘PŁYN RINGERA FRESENIUS’:tn   OR ‘PŁYN RINGERA Z MLECZANAMI FRESENIUS’:tn  OR ‘PŁYN WIELOELEKTROLITOWY FRESENIUS’:tn   OR ‘ QUGO’:tn  OR ‘ REANUTRIFLEX LIPIDE G 144/N 8/E’:tn  OR ‘ REDRATE’:tn  OR ‘ REGIOCIT’:tn  OR ‘  REHYDRATION TREATMENT’:tn  OR ‘REHYDREX MED GLUCOS’:tn  OR ‘ REHYDREX MED GLUCOSE’:tn  OR  ‘ REHYDRON’:tn  OR ‘RESCUEFLOW’:tn  OR ‘RESPITOL’:tn  OR ‘ RESTORVOL’:tn  OR ‘  RHEOMACRODEX’:tn  OR ‘ RINDEX’:tn  OR ‘RINGER’:tn  OR ‘ RINGER LACTADO’:tn  OR ‘ RINGER  LACTATE’:tn  OR ‘ RINGER LACTATO’:tn  OR ‘RINGER LAKTAT’:tn  OR ‘ RINGER LATTATO’:tn  OR ‘  RINGERS’:tn  OR ‘ RINGERS, VIAFLO’:tn  OR ‘RINGER, VIAFLO’:tn  OR ‘ RINGERACETAT, VAIFLO’:tn  OR ‘  RINGERACETATLÖSUNG’:tn  OR ‘ RINGERKLORID’:tn  OR ‘ RINGERLACTAAT ’:tn  OR ‘ RINGERLACTAT’:tn   OR ‘ RINGERLACTATLOSUNG DEMO’:tn  OR ‘RINGERLACTATLÖSUNG’:tn  OR ‘ RINGERLACTATLÖSUNG  BERLINCHEMIE’:tn  OR ‘RINGERLACTATLÖSUNG HARTMANN’:tn  OR ‘ RINGERLACTATLÖSUNG NACH  HARTMANN’:tn  OR ‘RINGERLAKTAT’:tn  OR ‘ RINGERLOESUNG’:tn  OR ‘ RINGERLÖSUNG’:tn  OR ‘  RINGERLÖSUNG BERLINCHEMIE’:tn  OR ‘RINGERLÖSUNG DEMO’:tn  OR ‘ RINGEROPLOSSING’:tn  OR ‘  RINGER’:tn  OR ‘RINGERFUNDIN’:tn  OR ‘RINGERI’:tn  OR ‘ RINGERJEV LAKTAT’:tn  OR ‘ RINGERJEVA  RAZTOPINA BRAUN’:tn  OR ‘RINGERLACTAAT’:tn  OR ‘ RINGERLACTAT, VIAFLO’:tn  OR ‘  RINGERLÖSUNG’:tn  OR ‘RINGERLÖSUNG ’:tn  OR ‘ RINGERLÖSUNG, VIAFLO’:tn  OR ‘ RINGEROV’:tn  OR  ‘ RINGEROVA’:tn  OR ‘RINGEROVA, VIAFLO’:tn  OR ‘ RINGER´S BRAUN’:tn  OR ‘ RINGER´S INJECTION  U.S.P.’:tn  OR ‘RINGERS LACTATE’:tn  OR ‘ RINGERŮV ROZTOK BRAUN’:tn  OR ‘ RINGERŮV, VIAFLO’:tn   OR ‘RINGERS’:tn  OR ‘ RINSRINGER’:tn  OR ‘ ROZTWORY DO TESTÓW PROWOKACYJNYCH’:tn  OR ‘  ROZTWORY DO TESTÓW PROWOKACYJNYCH’:tn  OR ‘ ROZTWORY DO TESTÓW PROWOKACYJNYCH’:tn  OR ‘ SAL CAROLINUM FACTITIUM EFFERVESCENS’:tn  OR ‘ SAL EMS FACTITIUM’:tn  OR ‘ SAL VICHY  FACTITIUM’:tn  OR ‘ SALIDEX’:tn  OR ‘ SALINA FISIOLÓGICA’:tn  OR ‘ SALINE’:tn  OR ‘ SALSOL’:tn  OR ‘  SALTADOL 331’:tn  OR ‘ SALVIAMIN 3,5 GE’:tn  OR ‘ SANTALYT’:tn  OR ‘ SELG’:tn  OR ‘ SELGINE’:tn  OR ‘  SER FIZIOLOGIC’:tn  OR ‘ SER FIZIOLOGIC’:tn  OR ‘ SERUM PHYSIOLOGICUM’:tn  OR ‘ SODIO  CLORURO’:tn  OR ‘ SODIUM CHLORIDE’:tn  OR ‘ SODIUM CHLORIDETCHAIKA’:tn  OR ‘ SODIUM  CHLORIDE/DEMO’:tn  OR ‘ SODIUM CHLORURE’:tn  OR ‘ SODU CHLOREK ’:tn  OR ‘ SOLUCIÓN DE  LACTATO RINGER ’:tn  OR ‘ SOLUCIÓN ISOTÓNICA DE CLORURO SÓDICO ’:tn  OR ‘ SOLUCIÓN RINGER  ’:tn OR ‘ SOLUTE PHYSIOLOGIQUE PHENOLE’:tn  OR ‘ SOLUTIO RINGERI FRESENIUS’:tn  OR ‘ SOLUTIO  RINGERI LACTATE FRESENIUS’:tn  OR ‘ SOLUTION FOR HAEMOFILTRATION E2’:tn  OR ‘ SOLUZIONE  CARDIOPLEGICA’:tn  OR ‘ SOLUZIONE PER CIRCOLAZIONE EXTRACORPOREA’:tn  OR ‘ SOLUZIONE PER  DIALISI PERITONEALE FME’:tn  OR ‘ SOLUZIONE PER EMODIAFILTRAZIONE’:tn  OR ‘ SOLUZIONE PER  EMOFILTRAZIONE HBIOFLUIDS’:tn  OR ‘ SOLUZIONE POLISALINICA CONCENTRATA CON POTASSIO’:tn   OR ‘ SOLUZIONE POLISALINICA CONCENTRATA SENZA POTASSIO’:tn  OR ‘ SOLUZIONI PER  BIOFILTRAZIONE’:tn  OR ‘ SOLUÇÃO CLORETADA HIPOTÓNICA’:tn  OR ‘ SOLUÇÃO DE CLORETO DE  SÓDIO’:tn  OR ‘ SOLUÇÃO POLIELECTROLÍTICA BASI’:tn  OR ‘ SOLUÇÃO POLIELECTROLÍTICA COM  GLUCOSE BASI’:tn  OR ‘ SOLUÇÃO POLIELECTROLÍTICA S SEM GLUCOSE’:tn  OR ‘ SOLUŢIE  HARTMANN’:tn  OR ‘ SOMATOSTATIN EUMEDICA’:tn  OR ‘ SORO 140’:tn  OR ‘ SORO 210’:tn  OR ‘ SORO  410’:tn  OR ‘ SORO FISIOLÓGICO’:tn  OR ‘ STERILE SODIUM CHLORIDE CONCENTRATE’:tn  OR ‘  STEROFUNDIN’:tn  OR ‘ SUBSTITUTIEOPLOSSING VOOR HEMOFILTRATIE BH 496’:tn  OR ‘ SUERO  FISIOLOGICO’:tn  OR ‘ SUERO FISIOLÓGICO, CLEARFLEX ’:tn  OR ‘ SUERO GLUCOSALINO’:tn  OR ‘  SUERO RINGER LACTATO’:tn  OR ‘ SUERORAL HIPOSÓDICO’:tn  OR ‘ SULPHODENT’:tn  OR ‘ SYNTHAMIN  14’:tn  OR ‘ TETRASPAN’:tn  OR ‘ TEVICON’:tn  OR ‘ TUTOFUSIN’:tn  OR ‘ UNILARM’:tn  OR ‘     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 50/368   URSOFALK’:tn  OR ‘ VENOFUNDIN’:tn  OR ‘ VENOHES’:tn  OR ‘ VENOLYTE’:tn  OR ‘ VENOMENHAL’:tn  OR ‘  VIAFLO GLUCOSALINO POTÁSICO ’:tn  OR ‘ VISTAPREP’:tn  OR ‘ VITAFUSAL 6%’:tn  OR ‘ VITAHES’:tn   OR ‘ VOLUFORTE’:tn  OR ‘ VOLULYTE’:tn  OR ‘ VOLUVEN’:tn  OR ‘ VONTEN’:tn  OR ‘ WECOL’:tn  OR ‘  YAPREL PEDIÁTRICO’:tn  OR ‘ ZDRÓJ’:tn  OR ‘ ΒΗ 503/LAC’:tn  OR ‘ 0.9% SODIUM CHLORIDE’:tn  OR ‘  5% DEXTROSE AND 0.45% SODIUM CHLORIDE’:tn  OR ‘ 5% DEXTROSE AND 0.9% SODIUM  CHLORIDE’:tn  OR ‘ ACCUSOL’:tn  OR ‘ ADSORBONAC’:tn  OR ‘ AKSOLITA’:tn  OR ‘ AMINOPLASMAL’:tn   OR ‘ ANTIVIPMYN.’:tn  OR ‘ ARTFED’:tn  OR ‘ ASTEMARINE3’:tn  OR ‘ B.BRAUN SODIUM CHLORIDE’:tn   OR ‘ BALANCE’:tn  OR ‘ BRONCHOSALINE’:tn  OR ‘ BSS’:tn  OR ‘ CAPD/DPCA 2’:tn  OR ‘  CARDIOPLEGIC’:tn  OR ‘ CLINIMIX N9G15E’:tn  OR ‘ COLOFORT’:tn  OR ‘ COLOLYT’:tn  OR ‘ COLYTE’:tn   OR ‘ COLYTE WITH FLAVOR PACKS’:tn  OR ‘ CONCLYTE NA’:tn  OR ‘ DARROWS SOLUTION’:tn  OR ‘  DELFLEX’:tn  OR ‘ DEXTROSE AND SODIUM CHLORIDE’:tn  OR ‘ DIALINE’:tn  OR ‘ DIANEAL’:tn  OR ‘  ELNEOPA NO.1’:tn  OR ‘ ELOHES’:tn  OR ‘ ELOHÄST’:tn  OR ‘ EXTRANEAL’:tn  OR ‘ EYE STREAM’:tn  OR ‘  FESS’:tn  OR ‘ FORTRANS’:tn  OR ‘ GASTROLIT’:tn  OR ‘ GAVILYTE C’:tn  OR ‘ GELOFUSIN’:tn  OR ‘  GELOFUSINE’:tn  OR ‘ GELOPLASMA’:tn  OR ‘ GEM’:tn  OR ‘ GLUACETO’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOLYTE’:tn  OR ‘  GLUCOLYTE’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSALINA’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSALINE’:tn  OR ‘ GLUCOSE + NACL ’:tn  OR ‘  GLYCOPREP’:tn  OR ‘ GOLYTELY’:tn  OR ‘ HAESSTERIL’:tn  OR ‘ HALFLYTELY AND BISACODYL’:tn  OR ‘  HARTMANNS’:tn  OR ‘ HEMOHES’:tn  OR ‘ HESPAN’:tn  OR ‘ HISINALC’:tn  OR ‘ HYDROL’:tn  OR ‘  HYPERHAES’:tn  OR ‘ HYPERTONIC SALINE’:tn  OR ‘ INFUKOLL’:tn  OR ‘ ISOLYTE’:tn  OR ‘ ISOLYTEM’:tn   OR ‘ ISOMOL’:tn  OR ‘ ISOPTO TEARS’:tn  OR ‘ KLEAN PREP’:tn  OR ‘ KLEANPREP’:tn  OR ‘ KN 1’:tn  OR ‘  KN NO1’:tn  OR ‘ KN NO.3’:tn  OR ‘ KN NO.4’:tn  OR ‘ KNMG NO.3’:tn  OR ‘ LACTATED RINGERS’:tn  OR ‘  LACTATED RINGERS’:tn  OR ‘ LACTEC’:tn  OR ‘ LACTEC D’:tn  OR ‘ LARMES ARTIFICIELLES’:tn  OR ‘  MAXIDRATE’:tn  OR ‘ MOLAXOLE’:tn  OR ‘ MOVICOL’:tn  OR ‘ MOVICOLON’:tn  OR ‘ MOVICOLON JUNIOR  NATUREL’:tn  OR ‘ MUBEN’:tn  OR ‘ MURO 128’:tn  OR ‘ MUVINLAX’:tn  OR ‘ NACL BIOREN’:tn  OR ‘  NIFLEC’:tn  OR ‘ NISITA’:tn  OR ‘ NORMAL SALINE OTSUKA’:tn  OR ‘ NORMAL SALINE TN’:tn  OR ‘  NORMOSOL’:tn  OR ‘ NORMOSOLM AND DEXTROSE’:tn  OR ‘ NORMOSOLR’:tn  OR ‘ NULYTELY’:tn  OR ‘  NUTRIFLEX LIPID PERI’:tn  OR ‘ NUTRIFLEX LIPID PLUS’:tn  OR ‘ NUTRIFLEX LIPID SPECIAL’:tn  OR ‘  NUTRIFLEX PERI’:tn  OR ‘ NUTRINEAL’:tn  OR ‘ OSMOSAL’:tn  OR ‘ OSMOTAN G’:tn  OR ‘ PEDIALYTE’:tn   OR ‘ PHYSIOGEL’:tn  OR ‘ PHYSIONEAL 35’:tn  OR ‘ PHYSIONEAL 40’:tn  OR ‘ PHYSISALZ’:tn  OR ‘  PLASMALYTE 148’:tn  OR ‘ PLASMALYTE A’:tn  OR ‘ PLASMALYTE’:tn  OR ‘ PLASMASTERIL’:tn  OR ‘  PLASMION’:tn  OR ‘ PLEGISOL’:tn  OR ‘ PRECOSOL’:tn  OR ‘ REHYDRON’:tn  OR ‘ REPLAS 1’:tn  OR ‘  REPLAS 3’:tn  OR ‘ RESCUEFLOW’:tn  OR ‘ RHEOMACRODEX’:tn  OR ‘ RINGER’:tn  OR ‘ RINGER  LACTAT’:tn  OR ‘ RINGER LACTATE’:tn  OR ‘ RINGER LAKTAT’:tn  OR ‘ RINGER LÖSUNG’:tn  OR ‘  RINGERACETAT’:tn  OR ‘ RINGERLACTAT’:tn  OR ‘ RINGERFUNDIN’:tn  OR ‘ RINOSORO’:tn  OR ‘  SALIDEX’:tn  OR ‘ SALINE’:tn  OR ‘ SLOW SODIUM’:tn  OR ‘ SODIUM CHLORIDE’:tn  OR ‘ SOLACET F’:tn   OR ‘ SOLDEM 2’:tn  OR ‘ SOLDEM 3PG’:tn  OR ‘ SOLITAT NO.2’:tn  OR ‘ SOLITAT NO.3’:tn  OR ‘ SOLITAT  NO.3G’:tn  OR ‘ SOLITAXH’:tn  OR ‘ SOLULACT D’:tn  OR ‘ SORINE’:tn  OR ‘ SORO FISIOLÓGICO’:tn  OR ‘  STEROFUNDIN’:tn  OR ‘ SUBLOODBSG’:tn  OR ‘ TETRASPAN’:tn  OR ‘ TPN’:tn  OR ‘ TRACEL’:tn  OR ‘  TRILYTE’:tn  OR ‘ TRISOL’:tn  OR ‘ UNISON ENEMA’:tn  OR ‘ URSOFALK’:tn  OR ‘ VEENF’:tn  OR ‘  VENOFUNDIN’:tn  OR ‘ VOLULYTE’:tn  OR ‘ VOLUVEN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 51/368   neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   12. Fluconazole   ‘FLUCONAZOLE’ OR ‘FLUKONAZOL’ OR ‘FLUKONAZOLA’ OR ‘FLUKONAZOL’ OR ‘FLUCONAZOL’ OR  ‘FLUKONAZOL’ OR ‘FLUKONAZOLS’ OR ‘FLUKONAZOLA’ OR ‘FLUKONAZOLO’ OR ‘FLUCONAZOLO’ OR  ‘FLÚKÓNAZÓL’ OR ‘FLUCONAZOL’ OR ‘FLUKONATSOLIA’ OR ‘FLUKONASOOLI’ OR ‘FLUCONAZOLUM’ OR  ‘ACANDIX’:tn OR ‘ALOZOF’:tn OR ‘FLUCONAZOL’:tn OR ‘AVIFLUCOX’:tn OR ‘AZOCAN’:tn OR ‘AZOCAN - P’:tn OR ‘AZOFLU’:tn OR ‘AZZOL -S’:tn OR ‘BEAGYNE’:tn OR ‘BOOTS THRUSH’:tn OR ‘CANACID’:tn OR  ‘CANDIFIX’:tn OR ‘CANDIFLU’:tn OR ‘CANDIZOL’:tn OR ‘CANDIZOLE’:tn OR ‘CANESTEN’:tn OR  ‘CANESTEN DUO’:tn OR ‘CANORAL’:tn OR ‘CITIGES’:tn OR ‘DALRICH’:tn OR ‘DERMASPOR’:tn OR  ‘DERMYC’:tn OR ‘DIFLAZOLE’:tn OR ‘DIFLAZON’:tn OR ‘DIFLUCAN’:tn OR ‘DIFLUCAN DERM’:tn OR  ‘DIFLUCAN DERM SAFT’:tn OR ‘DIFLUCAN SAFT’:tn OR ‘DIFLUCAN TROCKENSAFT’:tn OR ‘DIFLUZOL’:tn  OR ‘DILAPAN’:tn OR ‘DIZOLO’:tn OR ‘ELAZOR’:tn OR ‘EXOMAX’:tn OR ‘FALIPAN’:tn OR ‘FARVIRON’:tn  OR ‘FEMGIN’:tn OR ‘FEMIFLO’:tn OR ‘FIGALOL’:tn OR ‘FLUCALIT’:tn OR ‘FLUCAMED’:tn OR  ‘FLUCANID’:tn OR ‘FLUCESS’:tn OR ‘FLUCO’:tn OR ‘FLUCOBETA’:tn OR ‘FLUCOBETA DERM’:tn OR  ‘FLUCOCAPS -THERAPY’:tn OR ‘FLUCODERM’:tn OR ‘FLUCOFAST’:tn OR ‘FLUCOFIN’:tn OR  ‘FLUCOGLAN’:tn OR ‘FLUCOHEXAL’:tn OR ‘FLUCOL’:tn OR ‘FLUCONAPEN’:tn OR ‘FLUCONASTAD’:tn OR  ‘FLUCONAX’:tn OR ‘FLUCONAZIN’:tn OR ‘FLUCONAZOL’:tn OR ‘FLUCONAZOLO’:tn OR  ‘FLUCOPNAZOL’:tn OR ‘FLUCORAN’:tn OR ‘FLUCORIC’:tn OR ‘FLUCORTA’:tn OR ‘FLUCOSEPT’:tn OR  ‘FLUCOSTENOL’:tn OR ‘FLUCOVEIN’:tn OR ‘FLUCOVIM’:tn OR ‘FLUCOZAL’:tn OR ‘FLUCOZETA’:tn OR  ‘FLUKATRIL’:tn OR ‘FLUKIMEX’:tn OR ‘FLUKONAZOL’:tn OR ‘FLUKONAZOL ’:tn OR ‘FLUKONAZOL’:tn OR  ‘FLUKONAZOL LEK’:tn OR ‘FLUKONAZOL MEDARTUUM’:tn OR ‘FLUKONAZOL PMCS’:tn OR  ‘FLUMICON’:tn OR ‘FLUMOS’:tn OR ‘FLUMYCON’:tn OR ‘FLUNAZUL’:tn OR ‘FLUNAZUL DERM’:tn OR  ‘FLUNAZUL DERM + GYN’:tn OR ‘FLUORES’:tn OR ‘FLUSENIL’:tn OR ‘FLUZOMIC’:tn OR ‘FORCAN’:tn OR  ‘FUNADEL’:tn OR ‘FUNGATA’:tn OR ‘FUNGIMED’:tn OR ‘FUNGO’:tn OR ‘FUNGOLON’:tn OR  ‘FUNGRAM’:tn OR ‘FUNGUS’:tn OR ‘FUNGUSTATIN’:tn OR ‘FUNZOL’:tn OR ‘FUXILIDIN’:tn OR  ‘GYNOFLORAN’:tn OR ‘GYNOSANT’:tn OR ‘HADLINOL’:tn OR ‘KLAIDER’:tn OR ‘LAVISA’:tn OR  ‘LEFUNZOL’:tn OR ‘LOITIN’:tn OR ‘LOZANOC’:tn OR ‘LUCANDIOL’:tn OR ‘MEDOFLUCON’:tn OR  ‘MEDOFLUCON’:tn OR ‘MICONIX’:tn OR ‘MYCAZOLE’:tn OR ‘MYCOMAX’:tn OR ‘MYCOSIL’:tn OR  ‘MYCOSYST’:tn OR ‘MYCOSYST -GYNO’:tn OR ‘MYCOZAL’:tn OR ‘NEOMYCOL’:tn OR ‘NOFUNG’:tn OR  ‘NOVOFLON’:tn OR ‘NUMARK’:tn OR ‘OROFLUCO’:tn OR ‘RIFAGEN’:tn OR ‘RIFLAX’:tn OR ‘SADLOS’:tn  OR ‘SOLONA’:tn OR ‘STABILANOL’:tn OR ‘STADANAZOL’:tn OR ‘SUPREMASE’:tn OR ‘TEDIM’:tn OR ‘  FLUCONAZOLE’:tn OR ‘TIERLITE’:tn OR ‘TRIFLUCAN’:tn OR ‘TRIMIKOS’:tn OR ‘WINCH’:tn OR  ‘ZEFLUN’:tn OR ‘ZENAFLUK’:tn OR ‘ZERFUN’:tn OR ‘ZIDONIL’:tn OR ‘FLUCONAZOLE’:tn OR  ‘BISKARZ’:tn OR ‘CANDIZOLE’:tn OR ‘CANESORAL’:tn OR ‘CANESTEN’:tn OR ‘CANESTEN ORAL’:tn OR  ‘CANEX’:tn OR ‘DIFLAZON’:tn OR ‘DIFLUCAN’:tn OR ‘DIFLUCAN DERM’:tn OR ‘DIFLUCAN IV’:tn OR  ‘DIZOLE ONE’:tn OR ‘FCN’:tn OR ‘FLANOS’:tn OR ‘FLUCARD’:tn OR ‘FLUCAZOL’:tn OR ‘FLUCAZOLE’:tn  OR ‘FLUCO’:tn OR ‘FLUCONAL’:tn OR ‘FLUCONAX’:tn OR ‘FLUCONAZIN’:tn OR ‘FLUCONAZOL’:tn OR  ‘FLUCONAZOL ’:tn OR ‘FLUCONAZOL HEXAL’:tn OR ‘FLUCONAZOL PCH’:tn OR ‘FLUCONAZOL PFIZER’:tn  OR ‘FLUCONAZOL TIEFENBACHER’:tn OR ‘FLUCONAZOL’:tn OR ‘FLUCONAZON’:tn OR ‘FLUCOSTAT’:tn  OR ‘FLUNAZUL’:tn OR ‘FLUNIZOL’:tn OR ‘FLUZOL’:tn OR ‘FLUZOLE’:tn OR ‘FORCAN’:tn OR  ‘FULTANZOL’:tn OR ‘FUNZOL’:tn OR ‘LAVISA’:tn OR ‘MYCOMAX’:tn OR ‘MYCOSYST’:tn OR ‘OZOLE’:tn     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 52/368   OR ‘PRO -FLUCONAZOLE’:tn OR ‘PRODIF’:tn OR ‘RIVA -FLUCONAZOLE’:tn OR ‘SYSCAN’:tn OR  ‘TRICAN’:tn OR ‘TRIFLUCAN’:tn OR ‘TRIZOL FLUCONAZOLE’:tn OR ‘ZOLAX’:tn OR ‘ZOLTEC’ AND  ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti  OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   13. Montelukast   ‘MONTELUKAST’ OR ‘MONTELUCASTE’ OR ‘MONTELUKASTUM’ OR ‘MONTELUKASTAS’ OR  ‘MONTELUKASTUM’ OR ‘MONTELUKASZT’ OR ‘MONTELUKASTI’ OR ‘MONTELUKASTUM’ OR  ‘ACTAMONE’:tn OR ‘AEROMONT’:tn OR ‘AIRATHON’:tn OR ‘AIRCAST’:tn OR ‘AIRING’:tn OR  ‘ALVOKAST’:tn OR ‘ALVOMONT’:tn OR ‘APILONE’:tn OR ‘MONTELUKAST 10 MG’:tn OR ‘MONTELUKAST  4 MG’:tn OR ‘MONTELUKAST 5 MG’:tn OR ‘ASCAFI’:tn OR ‘ASCOLIN’:tn OR ‘ASMENOL’:tn OR  ‘ASMENOL MINI’:tn OR ‘ASTECON’:tn OR ‘ASTHATOR’:tn OR ‘ASTHMONT’:tn OR ‘ASTMASAN’:tn OR  ‘ASTMIR’:tn OR ‘ASTMIREX’:tn OR ‘ASTMODIL’:tn OR ‘ATENTUS’:tn OR ‘ATLABICLO’:tn OR  ‘BELOKAST’:tn OR ‘BROKAST’:tn OR ‘BRONCHIKAST’:tn OR ‘CASTISPIR’:tn OR ‘CHESMON’:tn OR  ‘DEPRIVE’:tn OR ‘ELUKAN’:tn OR ‘ELUNKAST’:tn OR ‘EONIC’:tn OR ‘EPHYRA’:tn OR ‘EPHYRA 10MG’:tn  OR ‘EPHYRA 5MG’:tn OR ‘EPHYRA GRANULES’:tn OR ‘FILKAST PER BAMBINI DA 2 A 5 ANNI’:tn OR  ‘FILKAST PER BAMBINI DA 6 A 14 ANNI’:tn OR ‘FULMONT’:tn OR ‘IMVLO’:tn OR ‘ISPYRRA’:tn OR  ‘JEPAFEX’:tn OR ‘KASTLUTEMON’:tn OR ‘KEMTELO’:tn OR ‘LANAIR’:tn OR ‘LEUKAST’:tn OR ‘LUKAIR’:tn  OR ‘LUKAIR JUNIOR’:tn OR ‘LUKANOF’:tn OR ‘LUKAS AIWA’:tn OR ‘LUKASM’:tn OR ‘LUKASTANG’:tn OR  ‘LUKAVENT’:tn OR ‘MELARTH’:tn OR ‘METIGRENUL’:tn OR ‘MILUKANTE’:tn OR ‘MINTALOS’:tn OR  ‘MIRALUST’:tn OR ‘MODULAIR’:tn OR ‘MOFENSTRA’:tn OR ‘MOKAST’:tn OR ‘MOKATEL’:tn OR ‘MOKATEL  PRO DĚTI OD 2 DO 5 LET’:tn OR ‘MOKATEL PRO DĚTI OD 6 DO 14 LET’:tn OR ‘MONALUX’:tn OR  ‘MONART’:tn OR ‘MONART PENTRU COPII CU VÂRSTA CUPRINSĂ ÎNTRE 2 ŞI 5 ANI’:tn OR ‘MONART  PENTRU COPII ŞI ADOLESCENŢI CU VÂRSTA CUPRINSĂ ÎNTRE 6 ŞI 14 ANI’:tn OR ‘MONAST’:tn OR  ‘MONCAS’:tn OR ‘MONDEO’:tn OR ‘MONKASTA’:tn OR ‘MONKASTA MONTELUKAST’:tn OR ‘MONKASTA  NÄRIMISTABLETT’:tn OR ‘MONLAST’:tn OR ‘MONLUCARE’:tn OR ‘MONSPES’:tn OR ‘MONSTONOL’:tn OR  ‘PER ADOLESCENTI E ADULTI DA 15 ANNI‘ OR ‘MONTAST’:tn OR ‘MONTECELL 4 MG’:tn OR  ‘MONTECELL 5 MG’:tn OR ‘MONTECON’:tn OR ‘MONTEFAR’:tn OR ‘MONTEFRANC’:tn OR ‘MONTEFRANC  ,’:tn OR ‘MONTEFRANC 5 MG’:tn OR ‘MONTEGEN’:tn OR ‘MONTELAIR’:tn OR ‘MONTELAK’:tn OR  ‘MONTELAR’:tn OR ‘MONTELEX’:tn OR ‘MONTELUBRONCH’:tn OR ‘MONTELUCASTE’:tn OR  ‘MONTELUX’:tn OR ‘MONTEMYL’:tn OR ‘MONTEMYL ARCANA’:tn OR ‘MONTEMYL  BVBA/SPRL’:tn OR  ‘MONTERAST’:tn OR ‘MONTERESP’:tn OR ‘MONTESPIR’:tn OR ‘MONTESSAN’:tn OR ‘MONTETINA’:tn OR  ‘MONTEWIN’:tn OR ‘MONTEXAL’:tn OR ‘MONTHAN’:tn OR ‘MONTOL’:tn OR ‘MONTUL PAEDIATRIC’:tn  OR ‘MOOLPAS’:tn OR ‘ORILUKAST’:tn OR ‘OTELUS’:tn OR ‘PENTAFENO’:tn OR ‘PERASM’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 53/368   ‘PLURALAIS’:tn OR ‘PNEUMO -KAST’:tn OR ‘PROMONTA ’:tn OR ‘PROMONTA’:tn OR ‘PROMONTA 5 MG’:tn  OR ‘RASEC’:tn OR ‘RESPILUKAS’:tn OR ‘RHINOSINGULAIR’:tn OR ‘ROMILAST’:tn OR ‘SASLONG’:tn OR  ‘SINGODEM’:tn OR ‘SINGULAIR’:tn OR ‘SINGULAIR 4 MG ΚΟΚΚΊΑ’:tn OR ‘SINGULAIR 5 JUNIOR’:tn OR  ‘SINGULAIR ALLERGY’:tn OR ‘SINGULAIR JUNIOR’:tn OR ‘SINGULAIR MINI’:tn OR ‘SINGULAIR  PAEDIATRIC’:tn OR ‘SINGULAIR -AR’:tn OR ‘SINGULERGY’:tn OR ‘SPIROKAST’:tn OR ‘SPIROMON’:tn OR  ‘STANGEN’:tn OR ‘SURFAIR’:tn OR ‘SYMLUKAST 10’:tn OR ‘SYMLUKAST 4’:tn OR ‘SYMLUKAST 5’:tn OR  ‘TELEACT’:tn OR ‘TELELUX’:tn OR ‘TELUKAST’:tn OR ‘LUKAST’:tn OR ‘THORDEL’:tn OR ‘VALNUEN’:tn  OR ‘VIZENDO’:tn OR ‘XAIRA’:tn OR ‘YEKAST’:tn OR ‘ZAKOMOXIT’:tn OR ‘ΜOΝTALIS’:tn OR  ‘ASCOLIN’:tn OR ‘CUBRAXIS’:tn OR ‘DOM -MONTELUKAST’:tn OR ‘KIPRES’:tn OR ‘LUKAIR’:tn OR  ‘MILUKANTE’:tn OR ‘MONTEK’:tn OR ‘MONTELAIR’:tn OR ‘MONTELUKAST’:tn OR ‘MONTRATE’:tn OR  ‘PIEMONTE’:tn OR ‘ROMILAST’:tn OR ‘SINGULAIR’:tn OR ‘SINGULAIR PAEDIATRIC’:tn OR ‘SINGULAIR - AR’:tn OR ‘VENTILAR’:tn OR ‘ZESPIRA’:tn OR ‘ZYLCAS’ AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   14. Atorvastatin   ‘ATORVASTATIN’ OR ‘ATORVASTATÍN’ OR ‘ATORVASTATINĂ’ OR ‘ATORVASTATINA’ OR  ‘ATORWASTATYNA’ OR ‘ATORVASTATINE’ OR ‘ATORVASTATĪNS’ OR ‘ATORVASTATINAS’ OR  ‘ATORVASTATINUM’ OR  ‘ATORVASZTATIN’ OR ‘ATORVASTATINE’ OR ‘ATORVASTATIIN’ OR  ‘ATORVASTATIINI’ OR ‘ATORVASTATINUM’ OR ‘ABARAN’:tn OR ‘ACTOZORA’:tn OR ‘ALTORAM’:tn OR  ‘AMEDO’:tn OR ‘AMICOR’:tn OR ‘ANTORCIN’:tn OR ‘ATORVA’:tn OR ‘ARKAS’:tn OR ‘ARROWBLUE’:tn OR  ‘ARTAS’:tn OR ‘ARVASTATIL’:tn OR ‘ASCORD’:tn OR ‘ASTATOR’:tn OR ‘ATACOR’:tn OR ‘ATILEN’:tn OR  ‘ATOLIPIDRIN’:tn OR ‘ATOR PFIZER’:tn OR ‘ATOR -CHOL’:tn OR ‘ATORASAT’:tn OR ‘ATORBIR’:tn OR  ‘ATORCALL’:tn OR ‘ATORCIUM’:tn OR ‘ATORDIRVA’:tn OR ‘ATORGAMMA’:tn OR ‘ATORGON’:tn OR  ‘ATORIS’:tn OR ‘ATORKER’:tn OR ‘ATORLIP’:tn OR ‘ATORMAX’:tn OR ‘ATORNIDDA’:tn OR  ‘ATORPHARM’:tn OR ‘ATORPLUS’:tn OR ‘ATORSILD’:tn OR ‘ATORSTAD’:tn OR ‘ATORSTAN’:tn OR  ‘ATORSTAT’:tn OR ‘ATORSTATINEG’:tn OR ‘ATORTECH’:tn OR ‘ATORVA’:tn OR ‘ATORVA -Q’:tn OR  ‘ATORVA -’:tn OR ‘ATORVADIVID’:tn OR ‘ATORVAGEN’:tn OR ‘ATORVAL’:tn OR ‘ATORVALAN’:tn OR  ‘ATORVALET’:tn OR ‘ATORVAN’:tn OR ‘ATORVANOX’:tn OR ‘ATORVARATIO’:tn OR ‘ATORVAS’:tn OR  ‘ATORVASA’:tn OR ‘ATORVASIG’:tn OR ‘ATORVASTA ’:tn OR ‘ATORVASTACALC’:tn OR  ‘ATORVASTAD’:tn OR ‘ATORVASTA’:tn OR ‘ATORVASTATIN -CT’:tn OR ‘ATORVASTATIN -EGIS EGIS’:tn  OR ‘ATORVASTATIN’:tn OR ‘ATORVASTATIN -’:tn OR ‘ATORVASTATINA’:tn OR ‘ATORVASTATINE’:tn OR  ‘ATORVASTEROL’:tn OR ‘ATORVILBITIN’:tn OR ‘ATORVISTAT К’:tn OR ‘ATORVOX’:tn OR ‘ATORZEM’:tn  OR ‘ATOSTIN’:tn OR ‘ATOVANS’:tn OR ‘ATOZET’:tn OR ‘ATRACTIN’:tn OR ‘ATRAVEN’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 54/368   ‘ATROCELL’:tn OR ‘ATROST’:tn OR ‘ATROSTEROL’:tn OR ‘ATROVITA’:tn OR ‘ATROX’:tn OR  ‘ATSTEINAR’:tn OR ‘ATVIKKA’:tn OR ‘AVANOR’:tn OR ‘AVATARSTAD’:tn OR ‘BIGGER’:tn OR  ‘BISATUM’:tn OR ‘BLUVAL’:tn OR ‘BOMBAZOL’:tn OR ‘CALIPRA’:tn OR ‘CALLATOR’:tn OR ‘CARD -OK’:tn  OR ‘CARDYL’:tn OR ‘COPASTATIN’:tn OR ‘CORATOR’:tn OR ‘DANELIP’:tn OR ‘DECHOLEST’:tn OR  ‘DELATOR’:tn OR ‘DELIPOST’:tn OR ‘DISLIPAT’:tn OR ‘DIVASTINA’:tn OR ‘EDOVIN’:tn OR  ‘EZETIMIB/ATORVASTATIN MSD’:tn OR ‘FINICHOL’:tn OR ‘GLETOR’:tn OR ‘HYPOLIP’:tn OR  ‘IVISTATYNA’:tn OR ‘KEXROLT’:tn OR ‘LAMBRINEX’:tn OR ‘LARUS’:tn OR ‘LIPFIX’:tn OR ‘LIPIGAN’:tn  OR ‘LIPIMED’:tn OR ‘LIPITOR’:tn OR ‘LIPIZEM’:tn OR ‘LIPOSTATIN’:tn OR ‘LIPOVAST’:tn OR  ‘LIPRIMAR’:tn OR ‘LIPTIN’:tn OR ‘LIPTRUZET’:tn OR ‘LIPVASTIN’:tn OR ‘LOPAMOL’:tn OR  ‘LORVATEN’:tn OR ‘MELEMIB’:tn OR ‘MINILIP’:tn OR ‘MINOLIP’:tn OR ‘MYKITA’:tn OR  ‘ATORVASTIGEN’:tn OR ‘NELIBAT’:tn OR ‘OBRADON’:tn OR ‘ORBEOS’:tn OR ‘ORVATEZ’:tn OR  ‘PHARMASTATIN’:tn OR ‘PHARMTINA’:tn OR ‘PREVENCOR’:tn OR ‘PROTEGIS’:tn OR ‘PROVICARD’:tn OR  ‘ROTACOR’:tn OR ‘ROTOVA’:tn OR ‘SERSEMIC’:tn OR ‘SOPAVI’:tn OR ‘SORTIS’:tn OR ‘SOVRAST’:tn OR  ‘SPATIZALEX NEO’:tn OR ‘STATICARD’:tn OR ‘STATORVA’:tn OR ‘STAVRA’:tn OR ‘STORVAS’:tn OR  ‘STORVAS CRT’:tn OR ‘TAHOR’:tn OR ‘STATIN’:tn OR ‘THERVAN’:tn OR ‘TINATOR’:tn OR ‘TIOBLIS’:tn  OR ‘TORASTIN’:tn OR ‘TORATRAM’:tn OR ‘TOREZA’:tn OR ‘TORFACTA’:tn OR ‘TORVACARD’:tn OR  ‘TORVACARD -ZENTIVA’:tn OR ‘TORVACHOL’:tn OR ‘TORVACOL’:tn OR ‘TORVALIPIN’:tn OR ‘TORVAN’:tn  OR ‘TORVAPLUS’:tn OR ‘TORVARIN’:tn OR ‘TORVAS’:tn OR ‘TORVAST’:tn OR ‘TORVATEC’:tn OR  ‘TORVAZIN’:tn OR ‘TOTALIP’:tn OR ‘TOVANIRA’:tn OR ‘TULIP’:tn OR ‘VAROSTIP’:tn OR ‘VASTAT’:tn OR  ‘VASTAZOR’:tn OR ‘VOREDANIN’:tn OR ‘XAMARA’:tn OR ‘XANATOR’:tn OR ‘XARATOR’:tn OR  ‘XOLISTER -ALL’:tn OR ‘ZARATOR’:tn OR ‘ZARDIUX’:tn OR ‘ZOLETORV’:tn OR ‘ZORACTA’:tn OR  ‘ΗΟLISTEN’:tn OR ‘ACTALIPID’:tn OR ‘ALVASTIN’:tn OR ‘AMICOR’:tn OR ‘ATORVASTATIN’:tn OR  ‘ATACOR’:tn OR ‘ATILEN’:tn OR ‘ATOCOR’:tn OR ‘ATOLIP’:tn OR ‘ATOMAX’:tn OR ‘ATOR’:tn OR  ‘ATORIN’:tn OR ‘ATORIS’:tn OR ‘ATORLIP’:tn OR ‘ATORVA’:tn OR ‘ATORVACHOL’:tn OR ‘ATORVAS’:tn  OR ‘ATORVASTATINA’:tn OR ‘ATORVASTATINE’:tn OR ‘ATORVASTAX’:tn OR ‘ATOZET’:tn OR ‘ATOZET  COMPOSITE PACK’:tn OR ‘ATRAVEN’:tn OR ‘ATROX’:tn OR ‘BLODIVIT’:tn OR ‘CARDYL’:tn OR  ‘CHOLVAST’:tn OR ‘CITALOR’:tn OR ‘ETURION’:tn OR ‘EZATOR’:tn OR ‘LIPIBEC’:tn OR ‘LIPIFEN’:tn OR  ‘LIPISTAT’:tn OR ‘LIPITAKSIN’:tn OR ‘LIPITOR’:tn OR ‘LIPOCAMBI’:tn OR ‘LIPRIMAR’:tn OR ‘LIPTIN’:tn  OR ‘LIPTRUZET’:tn OR ‘LITORVA’:tn OR ‘LORSTAT 10’:tn OR ‘NEUSTATIN -A’:tn OR ‘NORMALIP’:tn OR  ‘ORVAST’:tn OR ‘PREVENCOR’:tn OR ‘RATIO -ATORVASTATIN’:tn OR ‘ROTACOR’:tn OR ‘SORTIS’:tn OR  ‘STATOR’:tn OR ‘STORVAS’:tn OR ‘TAHOR’:tn OR ‘TARDEN’:tn OR ‘THOREVA.’:tn OR ‘TORVA’:tn OR  ‘TORVACARD’:tn OR ‘TORVALIPIN’:tn OR ‘TORVAST’:tn OR ‘TOTALIP’:tn OR ‘TROVAS’:tn OR ‘TULIP’:tn  OR ‘ZARATOR’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR  'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 55/368   15. Acetylsalicylic Acid   ‘ACETYLSALICYLIC ACID’ OR ‘ACIDE ACETYLSALICYLIQUE’ OR ‘ACETYLSALICYILIC ACID’ OR ‘ACIDUM  ACETYLSALICYLICUM’ OR ‘ACETYL SALICYLIC ACID’ OR ‘ACIDE ACÉTYLSALICYLIQUE’ OR  ‘ACETYLSALICYLSYRA’ OR ‘ACETILSALICILNE KISLINE’ OR ‘ACETILSALICILNA KISLINA’ OR ‘KYSELINY  ACETYLSALICYLOVEJ’ OR ‘ACIDUM ACETYLOSALICYLICUM’ OR ‘ACETYLSALICYLOVEJ’ OR ‘ACID  ACETILSALICILIC’ OR ‘ÁCIDO ACETILSALICÍLICO’ OR ‘ACIDO ACETILSALICILICO’ OR ‘KWAS  ACETYLOSALICYLOWY’ OR ‘ACETYLSALISYLSYRE’ OR ‘ACETYLSALICYLZUUR’ OR ‘ACETILSALICILSKĀBE’  OR ‘ACETILSALICILSKĀBES’ OR ‘ACETILSALICILO RŪGŠTIS’ OR ‘ACETILSALICILO RŪGŠTIES’ OR  ‘ACIDUM ACETYLSALICYLICUM’ OR ‘ACIDO ACETILALICILICO’ OR ‘ACIDO ACETILSALICILICO’ OR  ‘ACETILSZALICILSAV’ OR ‘ACETILSALICILATNA KISELINA’ OR ‘ACIDE ACÉTYLSALICYLIQUE’ OR  ‘ACETYLSALICYLIQUE’ OR ‘D ACIDE ACÉTYLSALICYLIQUE’ OR ‘ASETYYLISALISYYLIHAPPOA’ OR  ‘ASETYYLISALISYYLIHAPPO’ OR ‘ATSETÜÜLSALITSÜÜLHAPET’ OR ‘ÁCIDO ACETILSALICÍLICO’ OR  ‘ACETYLSALIYILSAEURE’ OR ‘ACETYLSALICYLSÄURE’ OR ‘ACETYLSALICYLSYRE’ OR ‘ACIDUM  ACETYLSALICYLICUM’ OR ‘ACIDUM ACETYLSALICYLICUM’ OR ‘A -A-S’:tn OR ‘AAS’:tn OR ‘ACARD’:tn OR  ‘ACEKAL C S OKUSOM LIMUNA’:tn OR ‘ACESAL’:tn OR ‘ACESAN’:tn OR ‘ACESIL T’:tn OR  ‘ACESSALPROTECT’:tn OR ‘ACETILSALICILATO DE LISINA LABESFAL’:tn OR ‘ACETILSALICILNA  KISLINA/PSEVDOEFEDRIN’:tn OR ‘ACETILSALICILNA KISLINA/PSEVDOEFEDRIN LEK’:tn OR  ‘ACETILSALICILO RŪGŠTIS’:tn OR ‘ACETILSALICILSKĀBE’:tn OR ‘ACETYLIN’:tn OR ‘ACETYLIN  PROTECT’:tn OR ‘ACETYLSALICYLATE LYSINE’:tn OR ‘ACETYLSALICYLIC ACID -ASCORBIC ACID’ OR  ‘ACETYLSALICYLSYRA’:tn OR ‘ACETYLSALICYLSYRA/KOFFEIN APOFRI’:tn OR ‘ACETYLSALICYLZUUR  HEALTHYPHARM’:tn OR ‘ACETYLSALICYLZUUR KRUIDVAT’:tn OR ‘ACETYLSALICYLZUUR’:tn OR  ‘ACETYLSALICYLZUUR NEURO 30 PCH’:tn OR ‘ACETYLSALICYLZUUR NEURO’:tn OR  ‘ACETYLSALICYLZUUR NEURO’:tn OR ‘ACETYLSALICYLZUUR NEURO’:tn OR ‘ACETYSAL CARDIO’:tn OR  ‘ACID ACETILSALICILIC/PSEUDOEFEDRINA’:tn OR ‘ACIZAL’:tn OR ‘ACYFLOX’:tn OR ‘ACYLCOFFIN’:tn  OR ‘ACYLPYRIN’:tn OR ‘ACYLPYRIN EFFERVESCENS’:tn OR ‘ADIRO’:tn OR ‘AGGRENOX’:tn OR ‘ALBYL  MINOR’:tn OR ‘ALBYL -E’:tn OR ‘ALKA SELTZER’:tn OR ‘ALKA – PRIM’:tn OR ‘ALKA -PRIM’:tn OR ‘ALKA - SELTZER’:tn OR ‘ALKAEFFER’:tn OR ‘ALNAGON  NEO’:tn OR ‘ALUPIRIN’:tn OR ‘ANDOL’:tn OR  ‘ANGIVERT’:tn OR ‘ANOPYRIN’:tn OR ‘ANTIGRIPPINE A LASPIRINE ETAT GRIPPAL’:tn OR  ‘ANTYGRYPIN’:tn OR ‘APERNYL’:tn OR ‘APIRI’:tn OR ‘ASA’:tn OR ‘ASA -’:tn OR ‘ASACTAL’:tn OR  ‘ASAFLOW’:tn OR ‘ASAMED’:tn OR ‘ASAPRIN’:tn OR ‘ASASANTIN’:tn OR ‘ASATRIN PROTECT -’:tn OR  ‘ASCALCIN’:tn OR ‘ASCODAN’:tn OR ‘ASCORBISAL’:tn OR ‘ASCRIPTIN’:tn OR ‘ASKIT’:tn OR ‘ASP’:tn  OR ‘ASPEGIC’:tn OR ‘ASPEKARD’:tn OR ‘ASPENTER’:tn OR ‘ASPERAN’:tn OR ‘ASPETAX’:tn OR  ‘ASPIEFER’:tn OR ‘ASPIFOX’:tn OR ‘ASPIGLICINA’:tn OR ‘ASPIGRAN’:tn OR ‘ASPIMAG’:tn OR  ‘ASPIMAX’:tn OR ‘ASPIREM’:tn OR ‘ASPIRICOR’:tn OR ‘ASPIRIN’:tn OR ‘ASPIRIN -C’:tn OR  ‘ASPIRINA’:tn OR ‘ASPIRINE’:tn OR ‘ASPIRINE -C’:tn OR ‘ASPIRINETTA’:tn OR ‘ASPISELTZ’:tn OR  ‘ASPRO’:tn OR ‘ASPROACCEL’:tn OR ‘ASPROCARD’:tn OR ‘ASPROCOL’:tn OR ‘ASPROFLASH’:tn OR  ‘ASPROVIT’:tn OR ‘ASPROVIT+C’:tn OR ‘ASPVEN GR’:tn OR ‘ASS’:tn OR ‘ASS -CT’:tn OR ‘ASS -’:tn OR  ‘ASS/PSEUDOEPHEDRIN’:tn OR ‘ASTRIX’:tn OR ‘BAMYL’:tn OR ‘BAMYL KOFFEIN’:tn OR ‘BESTPIRIN’:tn  OR ‘BETAPRES’:tn OR ‘BILOKORD ASA’:tn OR ‘BIOPLAK’:tn OR ‘BISOBLOCK PLUS’:tn OR ‘BISOPROLOL  AND ASPIRIN’:tn OR ‘BISOSPIRINE’:tn OR ‘BOXAZIN PLUS C BEI KOPFSCHMERZ’:tn OR ‘BUFFERIN’:tn  OR ‘CAFIASPIRINA’:tn OR ‘CALCASTIN C O SMAKU MALINOWYM’:tn OR ‘CALLUS PLASTER’:tn OR  ‘CALMANTE VITAMINADO’:tn OR ‘CAPRIN’:tn OR ‘CARDEGIC’:tn OR ‘CARDIOASPIRIN’:tn OR  ‘CARDIOASPIRINE’:tn OR ‘CARDIOFLOW’:tn OR ‘CARDIONYCO’:tn OR ‘CARDIOPIRIN’:tn OR  ‘CARDIORAL’:tn OR ‘CARDIPHAR’:tn OR ‘CARDIRENE’:tn OR ‘CARIN’:tn OR ‘CARSAN’:tn OR ‘CARTIA’:tn  OR ‘CEPHYL’:tn OR ‘CIDO ACETILSALICILICO’:tn OR ‘CO -CODAPRIN’:tn OR ‘CODIS’:tn OR  ‘COFFEPIRINE OD BÓLU GLOWY’:tn OR ‘CONCOR ASA’:tn OR ‘CONCORASA’:tn OR ‘CORDILON’:tn OR  ‘CORDISAL’:tn OR ‘COROASS’:tn OR ‘CORPROTECT ’:tn OR ‘CORTIGRIPE’:tn OR ‘COULDINA’:tn OR  ‘CROSS & HERBERTS SOLUBLE ASPIRIN’:tn OR ‘DAMPIRYNA’:tn OR ‘DESENFRIOL C’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 56/368   ‘DIPRASORIN’:tn OR ‘DIPYRIDAMOL/ACETYLSALICYLZUUR’:tn OR ‘DISPERIN’:tn OR ‘DISPERSIBLE  ASPIRIN’:tn OR ‘DISPRIN’:tn OR ‘DOLMEN’:tn OR ‘DOLVIRAN’:tn OR ‘DOLVIRÁN’:tn OR ‘DYNALGIC’:tn  OR ‘EGICALM’:tn OR ‘ESTEPRIN’:tn OR ‘ETOMAR’:tn OR ‘ETOPIRYNA KONTROL’:tn OR ‘ETOPIRYNA  MAX’:tn OR ‘ETOPIRYNA OD BÓLU GŁOWY’:tn OR ‘EUDORLIN SCHMERZTABLETTEN’:tn OR  ‘FINREXIN’:tn OR ‘FINREXIN NEO’:tn OR ‘FLAMASACARD’:tn OR ‘FLECTADOL’:tn OR ‘FLUCONTROL  SYMPTOM’:tn OR ‘GODAMED’:tn OR ‘GODAMED ASS TAH’:tn OR ‘GODASAL’:tn OR ‘GOVASOC’:tn OR  ‘GRIFEXIN’:tn OR ‘GRIPETRAL’:tn OR ‘GRIPPHEXAL’:tn OR ‘HERZ ASS’:tn OR ‘HERZASS’:tn OR  ‘HERZASS -’:tn OR ‘HERZSCHUTZASS ’:tn OR ‘HJARTAMAGNÝL’:tn OR ‘HJERDYL’:tn OR  ‘HJERTEALBYL’:tn OR ‘HJERTEMAGNYL’:tn OR ‘HJERTEMIN’:tn OR ‘HUVANOF’:tn OR ‘IQUOR’:tn OR  ‘ISTANTAL’:tn OR ‘KALMOL - EXTRA’:tn OR ‘KALMOPYRIN’:tn OR ‘KARDEGIC’:tn OR ‘KODIMAGNYL’:tn  OR ‘KOFERINA - TABLETKI OD BÓLU GŁOWY’:tn OR ‘KOPIRYNA - TABLETKI OD BÓLU GLOWY’:tn OR  ‘KOPIRYNA – TABLETKI OD BÓLU GŁOWY’:tn OR ‘LASQUIL’:tn OR ‘LISOMUCIL’:tn OR ‘MAGNECYL - KOFFEIN BRUS’:tn OR ‘MAGNYL’:tn OR ‘MAGNYL -E’:tn OR ‘MAXIMUM STRENGTH ASPRO CLEAR’:tn OR  ‘MEJORAL CAFEÍNA’:tn OR ‘MELHORAL’:tn OR ‘METASPIRINE’:tn OR ‘MICROPIRIN’:tn OR ‘MIGPRIV’:tn  OR ‘MIGRAFIN’:tn OR ‘MIGRAMAX’:tn OR ‘MIGRASPIRINA’:tn OR ‘MIO -AAS’:tn OR ‘MODIXIS’:tn OR  ‘NEO-CEPHYL’:tn OR ‘NIPAS’:tn OR ‘NU -SEALS’:tn OR ‘NUPRIN’:tn OR ‘OKALDOL’:tn OR ‘OLTROLA’:tn  OR ‘ORISANTIN’:tn OR ‘PENEPRIN’:tn OR ‘POLOPIRYNA’:tn OR ‘PONOTEX’:tn OR ‘POST MI’:tn OR  ‘POSTMI’:tn OR ‘PRAVADUAL’:tn OR ‘PREMIG’:tn OR ‘PREVENTAX’:tn OR ‘PRIMASPAN’:tn OR  ‘PROFICAR’:tn OR ‘PROTECARDIN’:tn OR ‘PROVAPIRIN’:tn OR ‘PYRAMIDON’:tn OR ‘QUADRONAL ASS  COMP’:tn OR ‘RESITUNE’:tn OR ‘ROMPIRIN E’:tn OR ‘ROWA COLD & FLU’:tn OR ‘SALICINA’:tn OR  ‘SALICYLCAFEINA’:tn OR ‘SALOSPIR C’:tn OR ‘SALPIRIN’:tn OR ‘SANTEPIRIN’:tn OR ‘SAVORY & MOORE  DISPERSIBLE ASPIRIN’:tn OR ‘SEDASPIR’:tn OR ‘SEDERGINE’:tn OR ‘SELLES SOLUBLE ASPIRIN’:tn OR  ‘SIFUPRIN’:tn OR ‘SOLUBLE ASPIRIN 300MG’:tn OR ‘STACYL’:tn OR ‘STADAPYRIN’:tn OR ‘SVELUX’:tn  OR ‘TABLETTA CHINACISALIS CUM VITAMINO C PARMA PRODUKT GYÓGYSZERGYÁRTÓ’:tn OR  ‘THROMBO ASA’:tn OR ‘THROMBO ASS’:tn OR ‘THROMBOSTAD’:tn OR ‘TIANZAKT’:tn OR ‘TOGAL  ASS’:tn OR ‘TOGAL KOPFSCHMERZ -BRAUSE + VITAMIN C’:tn OR ‘TOGAL SELTZER ASS’:tn OR  ‘TOLDEX’:tn OR ‘TREMLETTS SOLUBLE ASPIRIN’:tn OR ‘TREO’:tn OR ‘TRINOMIA’:tn OR ‘TROMALYT’:tn  OR ‘TROMBYL’:tn OR ‘UPSTINON’:tn OR ‘VASOPIRIN’:tn OR ‘VIVIN’:tn OR ‘ÁIDO ACETILSALICÍLICO  PHARMAKERN’:tn OR ‘A.A.S.’:tn OR ‘AAS’:tn OR ‘AAS PROTECT’:tn OR ‘ACARD’:tn OR ‘ACESAL’:tn OR  ‘ACESAN’:tn OR ‘ ACETOSAL’:tn OR ‘ACETYLIN’:tn  OR ‘ACETYLSALICYLZUUR’:tn OR  ‘ACETYLSALICYLZUUR CARDIO’:tn OR ‘ACETYLSALICYLZUUR’:tn OR ‘ACETYLSALICYLZUUR’:tn OR  ‘ADIRO’:tn OR ‘AGGRENOX’:tn OR ‘ALBYL -E’:tn OR ‘ALCACYL 500 INSTANT’:tn OR ‘ALKA SELTZER’:tn  OR ‘ALKA -PRIM’:tn OR ‘ALKA -SELTZER’:tn OR ‘AM EXTRA STENGTH’:tn OR ‘ANACIN’:tn OR ‘ANDOL’:tn  OR ‘ANGETTES’:tn OR ‘ANOPYRIN’:tn OR ‘APO ASA’:tn OR ‘ASA’:tn OR ‘ASACARD’:tn OR ‘ASADOL’:tn  OR ‘ASAFLOW’:tn OR ‘ASAPHEN’:tn OR ‘ASAPRIN’:tn OR ‘ASASANTIN’:tn OR ‘ASASANTINE’:tn OR  ‘ASCARD’:tn OR ‘ASCARDIA’:tn OR ‘ASCRIPTIN’:tn OR ‘ASP’:tn OR ‘ASPALGIN’:tn OR ‘ASPECARD’:tn  OR ‘ASPEGIC’:tn OR ‘ASPENT’:tn OR ‘ASPENT -M’:tn OR ‘ASPILETS’:tn OR ‘ASPIPAC’:tn OR ‘ASPIR  LOW’:tn OR ‘ASPIRIN’:tn OR ‘ASPIRIN -C’:tn OR ‘ASPIRINA’:tn OR ‘ASPIRINE’:tn OR ‘ASPIRINE -C’:tn  OR ‘ASPIRINETTA’:tn OR ‘ASPISOL’:tn OR ‘ASPRO’:tn OR ‘ASPÉGIC MITE’:tn OR ‘ASS’:tn OR  ‘ASTRIX’:tn OR ‘BAMYL’:tn OR ‘BASSAMIN’:tn OR ‘BAYASPIRIN’:tn OR ‘BAYER ADVANCED ASPIRIN  REGULAR STRENGTH’:tn OR ‘BAYER ASPIRIN’:tn OR ‘BAYER LOW DOSE’:tn OR ‘BAYPRIN EC’:tn OR ‘BC  ARTHRITIS’:tn OR ‘BC FAST PAIN RELIEF’:tn OR ‘BOKEY’:tn OR ‘BUFFERIN’:tn OR ‘CAFIASPIRINA’:tn  OR ‘CAPRIN’:tn OR ‘CARDEGIC’:tn OR ‘CARDIASK’:tn OR ‘CARDIAX -ASS’:tn OR ‘CARDIOASPIRIN’:tn  OR ‘CARDIOASPIRINA’:tn OR ‘CARDIOASPIRINE’:tn OR ‘CARDIOPIRIN’:tn OR ‘CARDIPRIN’:tn OR  ‘CARDIRENE’:tn OR ‘CARTIA’:tn OR ‘CATALGINE’:tn OR ‘CEPHYL’:tn OR ‘CHILDRENS ASPIRIN’:tn OR  ‘CODIS’:tn OR ‘CODRAL FORTE’:tn OR ‘CORASPIN’:tn OR ‘CORASPIR’:tn OR ‘CORISTINA D’:tn OR  ‘CORTAL FOR ADULTS’:tn OR ‘COULDINA’:tn OR ‘DELGESIC’:tn OR ‘DISPERIN’:tn OR ‘DISPRIL’:tn OR  ‘DISPRIN’:tn OR ‘DORIL’:tn OR ‘ECASIL’:tn OR ‘ECOTRIN’:tn OR ‘EMPIRIN’:tn OR ‘ENCOPIRIN’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 57/368   ‘ENTERIC ASPIRIN’:tn OR ‘ENTERIC COATED ASPIRIN’:tn OR ‘ENTROPHEN’:tn OR ‘EXTRA STRENGTH  BACK AND BODY’:tn OR ‘EXTRA STRENGTH BAYER BACK & BODY PAIN’:tn OR ‘FIORINAL C’:tn OR  ‘FLECTADOL’:tn OR ‘GENUINE ASPIRIN’:tn OR ‘GODAMED’:tn OR ‘HALFPRIN’:tn OR ‘HERZASS’:tn OR  ‘HJERTEMAGNYL’:tn OR ‘JAMP -ASA’:tn OR ‘KARDEGIC’:tn OR ‘KILIOS’:tn OR ‘LOW DOSE ASPIRIN’:tn  OR ‘LOWPRIN’:tn OR ‘MAGNECYL’:tn OR ‘MAGNYL’:tn OR ‘MELHORAL’:tn OR ‘MICROPIRIN’:tn OR  ‘NICHIASPIRIN’:tn OR ‘NOVASEN’:tn OR ‘NU -SEALS’:tn OR ‘NUPRIN’:tn OR ‘PMS -ASA’:tn OR ‘PMS -ASA  EC’:tn OR ‘POLOCARD’:tn OR ‘PRAVADUAL’:tn OR ‘PRO -AAS’:tn OR ‘PYRAMIDON’:tn OR ‘REGULAR  STRENGTH ASPIRIN EC’:tn OR ‘RESPRIN’:tn OR ‘RHONAL’:tn OR ‘RIVASA’:tn OR ‘RIVASA FC’:tn OR  ‘SALITISON’:tn OR ‘SALOSPIR’:tn OR ‘SEDERGINE’:tn OR ‘SOLPRIN’:tn OR ‘SOMALGIN’:tn OR  ‘SPREN’:tn OR ‘ST JOSEPH’:tn OR ‘STANBACK’:tn OR ‘TERAPIN’:tn OR ‘PIRIN’:tn OR ‘THROMBO AS’:tn  OR ‘THROMBO ASA’:tn OR ‘THROMBO ASS’:tn OR ‘TIATRAL SR’:tn OR ‘TREO’:tn OR ‘TROMALYT’:tn OR  ‘TROMBYL’:tn OR ‘UPSARIN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   16. Amoxicillin   ‘AMOXICILLIN’ OR ‘AMOXICILLINE’ OR ‘AMOXICILLINUM’ OR ‘AMOKSICILIN’ OR ‘AMOXICILINĂ’ OR  ‘AMOXICILINA’ OR ‘AMOKSICILĪNS’ OR ‘AMOKSICILINO’ OR ‘AMOXICILLINUM’ OR ‘AMOXICILLINA’ OR  ‘AMOKSICILIN’ OR ‘AMOKSITSILLIINI’ OR ‘AMOXICILLINUM’ OR ‘ABBA’:tn OR ‘ABIOCLAV’:tn OR  ‘ACADIMOX’:tn OR ‘ACCORDIA’:tn OR ‘AFRELOXA’:tn OR ‘AKLAV’:tn OR ‘AKTIL’:tn OR ‘ALMACIN’:tn OR  ‘AMIMOX’:tn OR ‘AMITRON’:tn OR ‘AMOCLAN’:tn OR ‘AMOCLANE’:tn OR ‘AMOCLANEEG’:tn OR  ‘AMOCLANEEUROGENERICS’:tn OR ‘AMOCLANHEXAL’:tn OR ‘AMOCLAV’:tn OR ‘AMOCLAVAM’:tn OR  ‘AMODEX’:tn OR ‘AMOKSIKLAV’:tn OR ‘AMOKSILAV’:tn OR ‘AMORION’:tn OR ‘AMOSOL’:tn OR  ‘AMOTAKS’:tn OR ‘AMOX’:tn OR ‘AMOXAPEN’:tn OR ‘AMOXCLAV’:tn OR ‘AMOXI’:tn OR ‘AMOXI - CLAVULAN’:tn OR ‘AMOXI -CT’:tn OR ‘AMOXI -SAAR’:tn OR ‘AMOXIBETA’:tn OR ‘AMOXICILINA’:tn OR  ‘AMOXICILINA + ÁCIDO CLAVULÂNICO AÇÚCAR LIVRE BB’:tn OR ‘AMOXICILINA /ACIDO  CLAVULANICO’:tn OR ‘AMOXICILINA 1 G COMPRIMIDOS’:tn OR ‘AMOXICILINA E ÁCIDO  CLAVULÂNICO’:tn OR ‘AMOXICILINA+ÁCIDO CLAVULÂNICO’:tn OR ‘AMOXICILINA/CLAVULÁNICO’:tn  OR ‘AMOXICILINĂ MIP’:tn OR ‘AMOXICILINĂ’:tn OR ‘AMOXICILINĂ/ACID CLAVULANIC’:tn OR  ‘AMOXICILLIN’:tn OR ‘AMOXICILLIN MIP‘ OR ‘AMOXICILLIN - CLAVULANIC ACID’:tn OR ‘AMOXICILLIN /  CLAVULANSÄURE HIKMA’:tn OR ‘AMOXICILLIN -CLAVULANATE POTASSIUM’:tn OR OR  ‘AMOXICILLIN/CLAVULANIC ACID’ OR ‘AMOXICILLIN/CLAVULANSYRE’:tn OR  ‘AMOXICILLIN/CLAVULANSÄURE’:tn OR ‘AMOXICILLIN/KLAVULÁNSAV’:tn OR ‘AMOXICILLINA ACIDO  CLAVULANICO’:tn OR ‘AMOXICILLINA E ACIDO CLAVULANIC’ OR ‘AMOXICILLINE/ACIDE     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 58/368   CLAVULANIQUE’ OR ‘AMOXICILLINE/CLAVULAANZUUR’:tn OR ‘AMOXICLAV’:tn OR ‘AMOXICLAVE’:tn OR  ‘AMOXICLAV’:tn OR ‘AMOXICOMP’:tn OR ‘AMOXIDURA PLUS’:tn OR ‘AMOXIHEXAL’:tn OR ‘AMOXIL’:tn  OR ‘AMOXILAN’:tn OR ‘AMOXILLIN/CLAVULANSYRE’:tn OR ‘AMOXIN’:tn OR ‘AMOXINA’:tn OR  ‘AMOXIPLUS’:tn OR ‘AMOXISTAD’:tn OR ‘AMOXYCILLIN’:tn OR ‘AMPICILLIN PCD’:tn OR ‘AMPLAMOX’:tn  OR ‘ANIVAL’:tn OR ‘APROXAL’:tn OR ‘ARDINE’:tn OR ‘ARDINECLAV’:tn OR ‘AUGLAVIN’:tn OR  ‘AUGMENTAN’:tn OR ‘AUGMENTIN’:tn OR ‘AUGMENTIN BAMBINI’:tn OR ‘AUGMENTINE’:tn OR  ‘AVEGGIO’:tn OR ‘BACTIMED’:tn OR ‘BACTOX’:tn OR ‘BAKTOCILLIN’:tn OR ‘BETAKLAV’:tn OR  ‘BETAMOX’:tn OR ‘BIOCLAVID’:tn OR ‘CIPAMOX’:tn OR ‘CLAMOXYL’:tn OR ‘CLAVAMEL’:tn OR  ‘CLAVAMOX’:tn OR ‘CLAVEPEN’:tn OR ‘CLAVIUS’:tn OR ‘CLAVOMED’:tn OR ‘CLAVOMID’:tn OR  ‘CLAVUCID SOLUTAB’:tn OR ‘CLAVULIN’:tn OR ‘CLIMOX’:tn OR ‘CLONAMOX’:tn OR ‘CO -AMOXICLAV’:tn  OR ‘CURAM’:tn OR ‘DEDOXIL’:tn OR ‘DUOMOX’:tn OR ‘DUONASA’:tn OR ‘EDAMOX’:tn OR  ‘ENHANCIN’:tn OR ‘EUTICLAVIR’:tn OR ‘FEDROXX’:tn OR ‘FLANAMOX’:tn OR ‘FLEMOXIN’:tn OR  ‘FORCID’:tn OR ‘FORCID SOLUTAB’:tn OR ‘FUGENTIN’:tn OR ‘GERAMOX’:tn OR ‘GERMENTIN’:tn OR  ‘GRAMIDIL’:tn OR ‘HELIPAK A’:tn OR ‘HELIPAK K’:tn OR ‘HICONCIL’:tn OR ‘IMACILLIN’:tn OR  ‘IMADRAX’:tn OR ‘INFECTOMOX’:tn OR ‘JUTAMOX’:tn OR ‘KLAVAX BID’:tn OR ‘KLAVOBEL’:tn OR  ‘KLAVOCIN’:tn OR ‘KLAVOPHAR’:tn OR ‘KLAVUX’:tn OR ‘KRUXADE’:tn OR ‘MEDOCLAV’:tn OR  ‘MEGAMOX’:tn OR ‘MISKA’:tn OR ‘MONDEX’:tn OR ‘MOPEN’:tn OR ‘MOXACLAV’:tn OR ‘MOXADENT’:tn  OR ‘MOXARIN’:tn OR ‘MOXICLAV’:tn OR ‘MOXILEN’:tn OR ‘MYMOX’:tn OR ‘NEODUPLAMOX’:tn OR  ‘NOPRILAM’:tn OR ‘ORALMOX’:tn OR ‘ORAMINAX’:tn OR ‘ORAMOX’:tn OR ‘OSPAMOX’:tn OR  ‘OXAMORAN’:tn OR ‘PENILAN’:tn OR ‘PINACLAV’:tn OR ‘PINAMOX’:tn OR ‘POSMOX’:tn OR  ‘PURICLAV’:tn OR ‘PURIMOX’:tn OR ‘RAMOCLAV’:tn OR ‘SERVAMOX’:tn OR ‘SIEVERT’:tn OR  ‘SINCLAV’:tn OR ‘SINTOPEN’:tn OR ‘SPEKTRAMOX’:tn OR ‘STEMOX BAMBINI’:tn OR ‘SYNTOCLAV’:tn  OR ‘TAROMENTIN’:tn OR ‘KLAV’:tn OR ‘WINPEN’:tn OR ‘XICLAV’:tn OR ‘XICLAV DUO’:tn OR ‘XICLAV  QUICKTAB’:tn OR ‘XINAMOD’:tn OR ‘XYLENN’:tn OR ‘YAMOXICLAV’:tn OR ‘ZIMOX’:tn OR ‘ZYMOLAV’:tn  OR ‘ADCO -AMOCLAV’:tn OR ‘AGRAM’:tn OR ‘AKTIL’:tn OR ‘ALPHAMOX’:tn OR ‘AMIN’:tn OR ‘AMOBAY  CL’:tn OR ‘AMOCLAN’:tn OR ‘AMOCLAVE’:tn OR ‘AMODEX’:tn OR ‘AMOHEXAL’:tn OR ‘AMOKSIKLAV’:tn  OR ‘AMOLIN’:tn OR ‘AMOX’:tn OR ‘AMOXAL’:tn OR ‘AMOXAPEN’:tn OR ‘AMOXCLAV’:tn OR ‘AMOXI’:tn  OR ‘AMOXI -BASAN’:tn OR ‘AMOXI -CLAVULAN’:tn OR ‘AMOXI -MEPHA’:tn OR ‘AMOXI -TABLINEN’:tn OR  ‘AMOXICILIN’:tn OR ‘AMOXICILINA’:tn OR ‘AMOXICILINA/CLAVULANICO’:tn OR ‘AMOXICILLIN’:tn OR  ‘AMOXICILLINA’:tn OR ‘AMOXICILLINE’:tn OR ‘AMOXICILLINE/CLAVULAANZUUR’:tn OR  ‘AMOXICILLINUM’:tn OR ‘AMOXICLAV’:tn OR ‘AMOXIDAL’:tn OR ‘AMOXIL’:tn OR ‘AMOXILLIN’:tn OR  ‘AMOXIN’:tn OR ‘AMOXISTAD’:tn OR ‘AMOXSAN’:tn OR ‘AMOXY’:tn OR ‘AMOXYCILLIN/CLAVULANIC  ACID’:tn OR ‘AMOXYCLAV’:tn OR ‘AMOXYPEN’:tn OR ‘AMPLIRON DUO’:tn OR ‘AMOXI’:tn OR  ‘APROXAL’:tn OR ‘AUGMAXCIL’:tn OR ‘AUGMENTAN’:tn OR ‘AUGMENTIN’:tn OR ‘AUGMENTINE’:tn OR  ‘AZICLAV’:tn OR ‘BETAMOX’:tn OR ‘CILAMOX’:tn OR ‘CLAMENTIN’:tn OR ‘CLAMOHEXAL DUO’:tn OR  ‘CLAMOVID’:tn OR ‘CLAMOXYL’:tn OR ‘CLANEKSI’:tn OR ‘CLAVAMOX’:tn OR ‘CLAVANT’:tn OR  ‘CLAVULIN’:tn OR ‘CLAVUMOX’:tn OR ‘CO -AMOXI’:tn OR ‘CO -AMOXICILLIN’:tn OR ‘CO -AMOXICLAV’:tn  OR ‘CURAM’:tn OR ‘DUOMOX’:tn OR ‘ENHANCIN’:tn OR ‘FLEMOCLAV’:tn OR ‘FLEMOXIN’:tn OR  ‘FLEMOXINE’:tn OR ‘FORCID SOLUTAB’:tn OR ‘GRAMAXIN’:tn OR ‘HICONCIL’:tn OR ‘IMACILLIN’:tn OR  ‘KLAVOCIN’:tn OR ‘LAMPION’:tn OR ‘MAXAMOX’:tn OR ‘MAXCIL’:tn OR ‘MOXACIN’:tn OR ‘MOXATAG’:tn  OR ‘MOXIPEN’:tn OR ‘MOXYPEN’:tn OR ‘NOVAMOX’:tn OR ‘NOVAMOXIN’:tn OR ‘NU -AMOXI’:tn OR  ‘OPTAMOX’:tn OR ‘OSPAMOX’:tn OR ‘PANKLAV’:tn OR ‘PASETOCIN’:tn OR ‘PENAMOX’:tn OR  ‘PENILAN’:tn OR ‘PRO -AMOX’:tn OR ‘RABECURE’:tn OR ‘RANMOXY’:tn OR ‘RATIO -ACLAVULANATE’:tn  OR ‘REMISAN’:tn OR ‘SAWACILLIN’:tn OR ‘SERVAMOX’:tn OR ‘SIGMA CLAV’:tn OR ‘SPEKTRAMOX’:tn  OR ‘SUPRAMOX’:tn OR ‘SUPRAPEN’:tn OR ‘SYNERMOX’:tn OR ‘TIRAMOX’:tn OR ‘TREXIL’:tn OR  ‘TRIMOX’:tn OR ‘UNIMOX’:tn OR ‘VELAMOX’:tn OR ‘WIDECILLIN’:tn OR ‘WYMOX’:tn AND ('adverse  drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 59/368   'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   17. Donepezil   ‘DONEPEZIL’ OR ‘DONEPEZILO’ OR ‘DONEPEZILUM’ OR ‘DONÉPÉZIL’ OR ‘ADONEP’ OR ‘ADONEP  OROTAB’ OR ‘ALERTAN’ OR ‘ALIZIL’ OR ‘ALKIMUS’ OR ‘ALLEVAPIL’ OR ‘ALTZER’ OR ‘ALZEPEZIL’ OR  ‘ALZEPIL’ OR ‘ALZIL’ OR ‘DOPERIL’ OR ‘ARICEPT’:tn OR ‘ARICEPT EVESS’:tn OR ‘ARICEPT FLAS’:tn OR  ‘ARICEPT OROTAB’:tn OR ‘ARIPEZ’:tn OR ‘ARIPEZIL’:tn OR ‘ARIPEZILE’:tn OR ‘ARIPIL’:tn OR  ‘ARISPES’:tn OR ‘AZEPEZIL’:tn OR ‘CARSTEZIL’:tn OR ‘CENIPIL’:tn OR ‘CICLODIN’:tn OR ‘CIPOZEL’:tn  OR ‘COGITON’:tn OR ‘COGNEZIL’:tn OR ‘COVOLOS’:tn OR ‘DARIZOL’:tn OR ‘DAVIA’:tn OR  ‘DEMELAN’:tn OR ‘DEMENTIS’:tn OR ‘DEMEZILON’:tn OR ‘DEMODIS’:tn OR ‘DESTEZIL’:tn OR  ‘DEZIAL’:tn OR ‘DIVARE’:tn OR ‘DIZIL ODIS’:tn OR ‘DOMETHAN’:tn OR ‘DONEBRAIN’:tn OR  ‘DONECEPT’:tn OR ‘DONECLAIR’:tn OR ‘DONECTIL’:tn OR ‘DONEGAL’:tn OR ‘DONELET’:tn OR  ‘DONELET OD’:tn OR ‘DONEPEGAMMA’:tn OR ‘DONEPESAN’:tn OR ‘DONEPEX’:tn OR  ‘DONEPEZILHYDROCHLORID’:tn OR ‘DONEPIL’:tn OR ‘DONEPREZIL’:tn OR ‘DONEPRION’:tn OR  ‘DONEPT’:tn OR ‘DONERATIO’:tn OR ‘DONESAN’:tn OR ‘DONESPES’:tn OR ‘DONESTAD’:tn OR  ‘DONESTER’:tn OR ‘DONESYN’:tn OR ‘DONETHON’:tn OR ‘DONEXA’:tn OR ‘DONEXPELOR’:tn OR  ‘DONEZIL’:tn OR ‘DONPETHON’:tn OR ‘DOPIL’:tn OR ‘DOSPELIN’:tn OR ‘DOZEPT’:tn OR ‘DOZILAX’:tn  OR ‘EZIDA’:tn OR ‘GENEZIL’:tn OR ‘HANIA’:tn OR ‘HESTA’:tn OR ‘KIBILIS’:tn OR ‘LANDEX’:tn OR  ‘LIXBEN’:tn OR ‘LIZIDRA’:tn OR ‘MAZIL’:tn OR ‘MEDOZIL’:tn OR ‘MEMAC’:tn OR ‘MEMOFIT’:tn OR  ‘MILTUS’:tn OR ‘NAVAZIL’:tn OR ‘NEPEZIL’:tn OR ‘NEPLA’:tn OR ‘NEZOPIL’:tn OR ‘NIRITOS’:tn OR  ‘ONEZA’:tn OR ‘PALIXID’:tn OR ‘PAMIGEN’:tn OR ‘PENEZIL’:tn OR ‘PENZONDIL’:tn OR ‘PEZALE’:tn OR  ‘PEZILED’:tn OR ‘PRIDIA’:tn OR ‘PROMEMORE’:tn OR ‘RADONA’:tn OR ‘RAFAZIL’:tn OR ‘REMOPLIX’:tn  OR ‘RICORDO’:tn OR ‘SUBSIPIL’:tn OR ‘SULBENIN’:tn OR ‘SYMEPEZIL’:tn OR ‘TACTROL’:tn OR  ‘TUADIN’:tn OR ‘VENAXEN’:tn OR ‘XALINAT’:tn OR ‘YASNAL’:tn OR ‘YASNORO’:tn OR ‘ZAKALMER’:tn  OR ‘ZILDON’:tn OR ‘ZINOCEPT’:tn OR ‘ZOPITEL’:tn OR ‘ALDOMER’:tn OR ‘ALZEPIL’:tn OR ‘ARAZIL’:tn  OR ‘ARICEPT’:tn OR ‘ARICEPT D’:tn OR ‘ARICEPT EVESS’:tn OR ‘DONECEPT’:tn OR ‘DONILA’:tn OR  ‘ERANZ’:tn OR ‘PROMEMORE’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 60/368   'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   18. Ethinylestradiol   ‘ETHINYLESTRADIOL’ OR ‘ABELONELLE’:tn OR ‘ACELYN’:tn OR ‘ACETATO DE  CIPROTERONA/ETINILESTRADIOL’:tn OR ‘ACNOCIN’:tn OR ‘ACONDRO’:tn OR ‘ADELE’:tn OR  ‘ADELLE’:tn OR ‘ADEPAL’:tn OR ‘ADRIANA’:tn OR ‘AIDA’:tn OR ‘AIDEE’:tn OR ‘AIDULAN’:tn OR  ‘AILYN’:tn OR ‘AILYN DIARIO’:tn OR ‘AITFORAILE’:tn OR ‘ALCMENA’:tn OR ‘ALEGRIA’:tn OR  ‘ALENINI’:tn OR ‘ALENVONA’:tn OR ‘ALESSE’:tn OR ‘ALESSIA’:tn OR ‘ALEXETTE’:tn OR ‘ALIANE’:tn OR  ‘ALISMA’:tn OR ‘AMARANCE’:tn OR ‘AMAROSA’:tn OR ‘AMELIE’:tn OR ‘AMICETTE’:tn OR ‘AMMILY’:tn  OR ‘AMOREST’:tn OR ‘ANAESTELL’:tn OR ‘ANAOMI’:tn OR ‘ANASTRELLA’:tn OR ‘ANEEA’:tn OR  ‘ANGILETTA’:tn OR ‘ANNABELLE’:tn OR ‘ANNAÏS’:tn OR ‘ANTELA’:tn OR ‘ANTIKONSTAD’:tn OR  ‘ANTIN’:tn OR ‘ANTINELLE’:tn OR ‘APLEEK’:tn OR ‘ARANKA’:tn OR ‘ARANKELLE’:tn OR  ‘ARANKELLECONT’:tn OR ‘ARIANNA’:tn OR ‘ARISTELLE’:tn OR ‘ARMARROK’:tn OR ‘ARMUNIA’:tn OR  ‘ARNETTE’:tn OR ‘ARTADAL’:tn OR ‘ARTILLA’:tn OR ‘ARTIZIA’:tn OR ‘ASUBTELA’:tn OR ‘ASUMATE’:tn  OR ‘ATTEMPTA’:tn OR ‘ATYWIA’:tn OR ‘AXIRA’:tn OR ‘AXONELLA’:tn OR ‘AYREEN’:tn OR ‘BALANCA’:tn  OR ‘BALANCACONTINU’:tn OR ‘BALANCETTE’:tn OR ‘BALIANCA’:tn OR ‘BEATRICE’:tn OR  ‘BELANETTE’:tn OR ‘BELARA’:tn OR ‘BELARACONTINU’:tn OR ‘BELINDA’:tn OR ‘BELISSA’:tn OR  ‘BELLGYN’:tn OR ‘BELLINA’:tn OR ‘BELLISSIMA’:tn OR ‘BELLMUNT’:tn OR ‘BELLVALYN’:tn OR  ‘BELLVERENE’:tn OR ‘BELUSHA’:tn OR ‘BELVALLYN’:tn OR ‘BEMASIVE’:tn OR ‘BENIDETTE’:tn OR  ‘BENIFEMA’:tn OR ‘BERTELLE’:tn OR ‘BETROA’:tn OR ‘BILINDA’:tn OR ‘BIMIZZA’:tn OR ‘BINOVUM’:tn  OR ‘BIVIOL’:tn OR ‘BONADEA’:tn OR ‘BONISARA’:tn OR ‘BONISSA’:tn OR ‘BONITA’:tn OR ‘BRADLEY’:tn  OR ‘BREVINOR’:tn OR ‘BRILLEVE’:tn OR ‘BRYORLENE’:tn OR ‘CALIMA’:tn OR ‘CALINDIR’:tn OR  ‘CAMILETTE’:tn OR ‘CARA’:tn OR ‘CARISA’:tn OR ‘CARLIN’:tn OR ‘CARMEN’:tn OR ‘CARMENELLE’:tn OR  ‘CECILIANA’:tn OR ‘CEDIA’:tn OR ‘CELESTA’:tn OR ‘CELESTINNE’:tn OR ‘CELIA’:tn OR ‘CELIMONA’:tn  OR ‘CELIMONE’:tn OR ‘CERSEII’:tn OR ‘CHARIVA’:tn OR ‘CHLOEE’:tn OR ‘CHRYSTELLE’:tn OR  ‘CILEST’:tn OR ‘CIMIZT’:tn OR ‘CIPROTERONA + ETINILESTRADIOL’:tn OR ‘CIRCLET’:tn OR  ‘CLAIRETTE’:tn OR ‘CLARISSA’:tn OR ‘CLAUDIA -35’:tn OR ‘CLAXI’:tn OR ‘CLEODETTE’:tn OR  ‘CLEODETTE DIARIO’:tn OR ‘CLEOGYN’:tn OR ‘CLEONITA’:tn OR ‘CLEOSENSA’:tn OR ‘CLORETINYL’:tn  OR ‘CLORMADINONE ETINILESTRADIOLO’ OR ‘CLORMETIN’:tn OR ‘CLOROMADINONA +  ETINILESTRADIOL’ OR ‘CO -CYPRINDIOL’:tn OR ‘COMBIPAT’:tn OR ‘CONCEPLAN M’:tn OR  ‘CONTINORA’:tn OR ‘CONTROVUL’:tn OR ‘CONVULINE’:tn OR ‘CORENELLE’:tn OR ‘CORTELLE’:tn OR  ‘CREDIGYNE’:tn OR ‘CREDIGYNETTE’:tn OR ‘CYPREST’:tn OR ‘CYPRETIL’:tn OR ‘CYPRETYL’:tn OR  ‘CYPRODERM’:tn OR ‘CYPRODIOL’:tn OR ‘CYPROMIX’:tn OR ‘DAILY’:tn OR ‘DAISYNELLE’:tn OR  ‘DALIA’:tn OR ‘DANDE’:tn OR ‘DANIELLE’:tn OR ‘DANSELLE’:tn OR ‘DANSEO’:tn OR ‘DAPHNE’:tn OR  ‘DARCY’:tn OR ‘DAYLETTE’:tn OR ‘DAYLINA’:tn OR ‘DAYLLA’:tn OR ‘DECIORA’:tn OR ‘DELIA’:tn OR  ‘DENILLE’:tn OR ‘DENISE’:tn OR ‘DENISELLE’:tn OR ‘DEREN’:tn OR ‘DESASVON’:tn OR ‘DESMIN’:tn OR  ‘DESO’:tn OR ‘DESOBEL’:tn OR ‘DESOFEMINE’:tn OR ‘DESOGEFFIK’:tn OR ‘DESOGESTREL /  ETHINYLESTRADIOL’ OR ‘DESOLETT’:tn OR ‘DESOLINA’:tn OR ‘DESORELLE’:tn OR ‘DESSETTE’:tn OR  ‘DESTELE’:tn OR ‘DESTREL’:tn OR ‘DIANE’:tn OR ‘DIANETTE’:tn OR ‘DIEDITA’:tn OR ‘DIENA’:tn OR  ‘DIENER’:tn OR ‘DIENILLE’:tn OR ‘DIENOBEL’:tn OR ‘DIENOGENANCE’:tn OR ‘DIENOGEST +  ETINILESTRADIOL’:tn OR ‘DIENOGEST/ETINILESTRADIOL’:tn OR ‘DIENORETTE’:tn OR ‘DIENOVEL’:tn     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 61/368   OR ‘DIONELLE’:tn OR ‘DIOZ’:tn OR ‘DONABEL’:tn OR ‘DONELLA’:tn OR ‘DONIZA’:tn OR ‘DORIN’:tn OR  ‘DORINELLE’:tn OR ‘DORINETTE’:tn OR ‘DORIN’:tn OR ‘DRELLE’:tn OR ‘DRETINE’:tn OR  ‘DRETINELLE’:tn OR ‘DROS’:tn OR ‘DROSDIOL’:tn OR ‘DROSDOLA’:tn OR ‘DROSEFFIK’:tn OR  ‘DROSFEM’:tn OR ‘DROSFEMINE’:tn OR ‘DROSIANE’:tn OR ‘DROSIANELLE’:tn OR ‘DROSIANNE’:tn OR  ‘DROSINETTA’:tn OR ‘DROSINETTE’:tn OR ‘DROSPERINON/ETHINYLESTRADIOL’ OR ‘DROSPIBEL’:tn OR  ‘DROSPIBEL CONTINU’:tn OR ‘DROSPIFEM’:tn OR ‘DROSPIL’:tn OR ‘DROSPIN’:tn OR ‘DROSPINELLE’:tn  OR ‘DROSPINFEM’:tn OR ‘DROSPIRENON/ETHINYLESTRADIOL’ OR ‘DROSPIRENONA +  ETINILESTRADIOL’ OR ‘DROSPIRENONA + ETINILESTRADIOL’ OR ‘DROSURALL’:tn OR ‘DROSURE’:tn  OR ‘DROSURELLE’:tn OR ‘DUEVA’:tn OR ‘EDELSIN’:tn OR ‘EDESIA’:tn OR ‘EFFILEVO’:tn OR  ‘EFFILEVOCONTINU’:tn OR ‘EFFIPLEN’:tn OR ‘EFFIPREV’:tn OR ‘EGOGYN’:tn OR ‘ELEVIN’:tn OR  ‘ELIN’:tn OR ‘ELISA 35’:tn OR ‘ELIZA’:tn OR ‘ELIZETTE’:tn OR ‘ELLANITE’:tn OR ‘ELOINE’:tn OR  ‘ELVINA’:tn OR ‘ELVINETTE’:tn OR ‘ELYNOR’:tn OR ‘ELYRIA’:tn OR ‘EMMA’:tn OR ‘EMONA’:tn OR  ‘ENADOR&PLACEBO’:tn OR ‘ENCIELA’:tn OR ‘ENRIQA’:tn OR ‘EPILETAM’:tn OR ‘ERGALEA’:tn OR  ‘ERLIBELLE’:tn OR ‘ERLIDONA’:tn OR ‘ERLIDONA DIARIO’:tn OR ‘ESETE’:tn OR ‘ESLARILA’:tn OR  ‘ESTAL’:tn OR ‘ESTELLE’:tn OR ‘ESTINETTE’:tn OR ‘ESTINETTE GESTODENE/ ETINILESTRADIOLO’ OR  ‘ESTMAR’:tn OR ‘ESTRALEVO’:tn OR ‘ESTRELEN’:tn OR ‘ESTRON’:tn OR ‘ETHINYLESTRADIOL /  DIENOGEST’ OR ‘ETHINYLESTRADIOL -GESTODENE’ OR ‘ETHINYLESTRADIOL/CHLORMADINONACETAT’  OR ‘ETHINYLESTRADIOL/DESOGESTREL’ OR ‘ETHINYLESTRADIOL/DROSPIRENONE’ OR  ‘ETHINYLESTRADIOL/GESTODEEN’ OR ‘ETILINESTRADIOL/DROSPIRENONA’ OR ‘ETINDROS’:tn OR  ‘ETINILESTRADIOL + GESTODENO’ OR ‘ETINILESTRADIOL + LEVONORGESTREL’ OR  ‘ETINILESTRADIOL + NORGESTIMATO’ OR ‘ETINILESTRADIOL/ACETATO DE CLORMADINONA’:tn OR  ‘ETINILESTRADIOL/CLORMADINONA’:tn OR ‘ETINILESTRADIOLO E DROSPIRENONE DOC’:tn OR  ‘EUFEM’:tn OR ‘EVALUNA’:tn OR ‘EVALUNA’:tn OR ‘EVANECIA’:tn OR ‘EVE 20’:tn OR ‘EVE  ETINILESTRADIOLO CLORMADINONE’:tn OR ‘EVEPAR’:tn OR ‘EVERISSA’:tn OR ‘EVRA’:tn OR  ‘FAMAGIL’:tn OR ‘FAMINA’:tn OR ‘FEDERIA’:tn OR ‘FEDRA’:tn OR ‘FELICITY’:tn OR ‘FELIXITA’:tn OR  ‘FEMICEPT’:tn OR ‘FEMIGAM’:tn OR ‘FEMIGOA’:tn OR ‘FEMIKADIN’:tn OR ‘FEMILUX’:tn OR  ‘FEMILUX,’:tn OR ‘FEMINEGI’:tn OR ‘FEMINIL’:tn OR ‘FEMINIL MITE’:tn OR ‘FEMISTAD’:tn OR  ‘FEMODEN’:tn OR ‘FEMODENE’:tn OR ‘FEMODETTE’:tn OR ‘FEMOVAN’:tn OR ‘FEMRANETTE’:tn OR  ‘FINIC’:tn OR ‘FINMINETTE’:tn OR ‘FLAYA’:tn OR ‘FLEXYESS’:tn OR ‘FLORENTIA 30’:tn OR ‘FLORENTIA  30/21+7’:tn OR ‘FOXINETTE NEO’:tn OR ‘FREEDO’:tn OR ‘FREEDONEL’:tn OR ‘GABRIELLE -20’:tn OR  ‘GABRIELLE -30’:tn OR ‘GAIA’:tn OR ‘GEDAREL’:tn OR ‘GEDAREL’:tn OR ‘GEDAREL’:tn OR ‘GEFEMIN’:tn  OR ‘GESFFISET’:tn OR ‘GESTILLA’:tn OR ‘GESTINYL’:tn OR ‘GESTODEEN/ ETHINYLESTRADIOL’:tn OR  ‘GESTODELLE’:tn OR ‘GESTODEN/ETHINYLESTRADIOL’:tn OR ‘GESTODENO + ETINILESTRADIOL’:tn  OR ‘GESTODETTE’:tn OR ‘GESTODILAT’:tn OR ‘GESTODIOL’:tn OR ‘GESTOFEME’:tn OR ‘GESTOMIX’:tn  OR ‘GESYTIL’:tn OR ‘GINESERVICE’:tn OR ‘GINODEN’:tn OR ‘GISSELINA 28’:tn OR ‘GLORIANNA’:tn OR  ‘GRACIAL’:tn OR ‘GRATIËLLA’:tn OR ‘GRAVISTAT’:tn OR ‘GYNDORA’:tn OR ‘GYNEPLEN’:tn OR  ‘GYNERA’:tn OR ‘GYNOFEN’:tn OR ‘GYNOVIN’:tn OR ‘HARMONET’:tn OR ‘HASTINA 21+7’:tn OR  ‘HEDFOR’:tn OR ‘HELEN’:tn OR ‘HUNOGIDON’:tn OR ‘IAMNA’:tn OR ‘IGIXON’:tn OR ‘ILLINA’:tn OR  ‘INDIRETTE’:tn OR ‘INKODESS’:tn OR ‘IRINOCOL’:tn OR ‘ISSORIA BETA’:tn OR ‘IZEANE’:tn OR  ‘JANGEE’:tn OR ‘JASMINE’:tn OR ‘JASMINELLE’:tn OR ‘JEANINE’:tn OR ‘JENNIFER’:tn OR ‘JODIE’:tn OR  ‘JOLINA’:tn OR ‘JULIANE 30’:tn OR ‘JULIETTE’:tn OR ‘JULIPERLA’:tn OR ‘JULIPERLA,’:tn OR ‘JUNONIA  BETA’:tn OR ‘KAPPANOGEST’:tn OR ‘KARHLA’:tn OR ‘KARHLEIGHT’:tn OR ‘KARISSA’:tn OR ‘KATUL’:tn  OR ‘KATYA’:tn OR ‘KERIETTE’:tn OR ‘KERIETTE DIARIO’:tn OR ‘KILMER’:tn OR ‘KIPLING’:tn OR  ‘KIRGA’:tn OR ‘KLEODINA’:tn OR ‘KONTRACEPT’:tn OR ‘KOSIMA’:tn OR ‘KOSTYA’:tn OR ‘KYLIXA’:tn OR  ‘KYLNETTA’:tn OR ‘LABIBIANE’:tn OR ‘LADONNA’:tn OR ‘LALYDIA’:tn OR ‘LAMUNA’:tn OR ‘LARABEL’:tn  OR ‘LARISSA’:tn OR ‘LAURENE’:tn OR ‘LAURINA’:tn OR ‘LAURINE’:tn OR ‘LAVINIA’:tn OR ‘LAVIOLA’:tn  OR ‘LAYAISA’:tn OR ‘LAYANINA’:tn OR ‘LAYNES’:tn OR ‘LEANOVA’:tn OR ‘LEELOO GÉ’:tn OR ‘LEIOS’:tn  OR ‘LEMOPHANE 28’:tn OR ‘LENEA’:tn OR ‘LENISAGYN’:tn OR ‘LEONA’:tn OR ‘LEONETTE’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 62/368   ‘LEONORE’:tn OR ‘LERNA’:tn OR ‘LESINE’:tn OR ‘LESINELLE’:tn OR ‘LESIPLUS’:tn OR ‘LESTRAMYL’:tn  OR ‘LESTRONETTE’:tn OR ‘LETHE’:tn OR ‘LETICIA’:tn OR ‘LEVERETTE’:tn OR ‘LEVEST’:tn OR  ‘LEVINA’:tn OR ‘LEVOBEL’:tn OR ‘LEVOMIN 30’:tn OR ‘LEVOMINE’:tn OR ‘LEVONORGESTREL /  ETHINYLESTRADIOL’:tn OR ‘LEVONORGESTREL E ETINILESTRADIOLO’:tn OR  ‘LEVONORGESTREL/ETHINYLESTRADIOL’:tn OR ‘LEVOSTROL’:tn OR ‘LIANA -’:tn OR ‘LIBELI’:tn OR  ‘LIBEREL’:tn OR ‘LILADROS’:tn OR ‘LILADROSCONTINU’:tn OR ‘LILIA’:tn OR ‘LINARA’:tn OR  ‘LINATERA’:tn OR ‘LINDYNETTE’:tn OR ‘LINELLE’:tn OR ‘LIOFORA’:tn OR ‘LIOFORA DIARIO’:tn OR  ‘LIOSANNE’:tn OR ‘LIRA’:tn OR ‘LISA’:tn OR ‘LISETTE’:tn OR ‘LIZINNA’:tn OR ‘LOETTE’:tn OR  ‘LOGEST’:tn OR ‘LOGYNON’:tn OR ‘LOTTA’:tn OR ‘LOUISE’:tn OR ‘LOVAPHARM’:tn OR ‘LOVAVULO’:tn  OR ‘LOVELLE’:tn OR ‘LOVETTE’:tn OR ‘LOWETTE’:tn OR ‘LUCETTE’:tn OR ‘LUCETTE ED’:tn OR  ‘LUCILLE’:tn OR ‘LUDEAL’:tn OR ‘LUISA’:tn OR ‘LUISEA’:tn OR ‘LULINA’:tn OR ‘LUMALIA’:tn OR  ‘LUNAFEM’:tn OR ‘LUNYTTA’:tn OR ‘LUNYTTEIGHT’:tn OR ‘LUSIENNE’:tn OR ‘LUSINE’:tn OR  ‘LUSINELLE’:tn OR ‘LUTIZ’:tn OR ‘LUVYNA’:tn OR ‘LYBELLA’:tn OR ‘LYNORAL’:tn OR ‘LYSANDRA’:tn OR  ‘MADELEINE’:tn OR ‘MADINANCE’:tn OR ‘MADINETTE’:tn OR ‘MADONELLA’:tn OR ‘MAEXENI’:tn OR  ‘MAGINON’:tn OR ‘MAITALON’:tn OR ‘MALONETTA’:tn OR ‘MARGOT 30’:tn OR ‘MARIONELLE’:tn OR  ‘MARLIES’:tn OR ‘MARTAM’:tn OR ‘MARVELON’:tn OR ‘MARVIOL’:tn OR ‘MAXIM’:tn OR ‘MAYRA’:tn OR  ‘MELIANE’:tn OR ‘MELITTA’:tn OR ‘MELLOW FILMTABLETTEN’:tn OR ‘MELODIA’:tn OR ‘MEL’:tn OR  ‘MENYAN’:tn OR ‘MERCILON’:tn OR ‘MICRODIOL’:tn OR ‘MICROGESTE’:tn OR ‘MICROGINON’:tn OR  ‘MICROGYN’:tn OR ‘MICROGYNON’:tn OR ‘MICROLITE’:tn OR ‘MICROSTAD’:tn OR ‘MIDANE’:tn OR  ‘MIDIANA’:tn OR ‘MIDIANACONT’:tn OR ‘MIDIEN’:tn OR ‘MILLIGEST’:tn OR ‘MILLINETTE’:tn OR  ‘MILVANE’:tn OR ‘MINERO’:tn OR ‘MINERVA’:tn OR ‘MINESSE’:tn OR ‘MINETTE’:tn OR ‘MINIDRIL’:tn  OR ‘MINIGESTE’:tn OR ‘MINISISTON’:tn OR ‘MINISISTON FEM’:tn OR ‘MINKIAN’:tn OR ‘MINULET’:tn  OR ‘MINULET - DRAGEES’:tn OR ‘MIRABELLA’:tn OR ‘MIRANOVA’:tn OR ‘MIRELLE’:tn OR ‘MIRELLE’:tn  OR ‘MISSEE’:tn OR ‘MISTRA’:tn OR ‘MISTRAL’:tn OR ‘MODICON’:tn OR ‘MODINA’:tn OR ‘MONA’:tn OR  ‘MONEVA’:tn OR ‘MONOSTEP’:tn OR ‘MOREA SANOL’:tn OR ‘MOTION ’:tn OR ‘MOVINELLA’:tn OR  ‘MUNALEA’:tn OR ‘MYLAZ’:tn OR ‘MYLAZELLE’:tn OR ‘MYLINE’:tn OR ‘MYRZI’:tn OR ‘MYRZI 28’:tn OR  ‘MYWY’:tn OR ‘NAIWANEL’:tn OR ‘NANAMI’:tn OR ‘NANETTE’:tn OR ‘NANNINA’:tn OR ‘NAOMI’:tn OR  ‘NARAYA’:tn OR ‘NATALYA’:tn OR ‘NAVEEN’:tn OR ‘NELYA’:tn OR ‘NEO -EUNOMIN’:tn OR ‘NEOCON’:tn  OR ‘NEOVLETTA’:tn OR ‘NORANELLE’:tn OR ‘NORGESTIMAT/ETINILESTRADIOL’:tn OR ‘NORIMIN’:tn OR  ‘NOVADIEN’:tn OR ‘NOVASTEP’:tn OR ‘NOVIAL’:tn OR ‘NOVYNETTE’:tn OR ‘NOVYPIL 28’:tn OR  ‘NUVARING’:tn OR ‘NUVARING’:tn OR ‘NYSSIELA’:tn OR ‘OC -35’:tn OR ‘OMISSON’:tn OR  ‘ONARELLE’:tn OR ‘OPTIDESO’:tn OR ‘OPTIDRIL’:tn OR ‘OPTILOVA’:tn OR ‘OPTINESSE’:tn OR  ‘ORALCON’:tn OR ‘ORCHIDEA’:tn OR ‘ORINDILLE’:tn OR ‘ORLIFIQUE’:tn OR ‘ORTHONETT NOVUM’:tn  OR ‘OVOPLEX’:tn OR ‘OVRAN’:tn OR ‘OVRANETTE’:tn OR ‘OVULASTAN’:tn OR ‘OVYSMEN’:tn OR  ‘PACILIA’:tn OR ‘PALANDRA’:tn OR ‘PAOLETTA’:tn OR ‘PEA’:tn OR ‘PEARLY’:tn OR ‘PELIETTE’:tn OR  ‘PERLITA’:tn OR ‘PETIBELLE’:tn OR ‘PHAENYA’:tn OR ‘PHAENYELA’:tn OR ‘PHAEVA’:tn OR ‘PINK  LUNA’:tn OR ‘PLANUM’:tn OR ‘POEHME’:tn OR ‘PRACTIL’:tn OR ‘PREVIVA SANOL 20’:tn OR  ‘PRIONELLE’:tn OR ‘PYRLA’:tn OR ‘QUICHELLE’:tn OR ‘REGISHA’:tn OR ‘REGULCONT’:tn OR  ‘REGULON’:tn OR ‘REZIA’:tn OR ‘RHONYA’:tn OR ‘RIGETRUX’:tn OR ‘RIGEVIDON’:tn OR ‘RIMENDIA’:tn  OR ‘ROSAL’:tn OR ‘ROSANELLE’:tn OR ‘ROSANNE’:tn OR ‘ROSEMAR’:tn OR ‘ROXANELLE’:tn OR  ‘ROZETTA’:tn OR ‘RUBIDELLE’:tn OR ‘RUBIRA’:tn OR ‘SABINELLE’:tn OR ‘SAMBA’:tn OR ‘SAXI’:tn OR  ‘SEASONIQUE’:tn OR ‘SECURGIN’:tn OR ‘SEEGEE’:tn OR ‘SEELAR’:tn OR ‘SELIKYNE’:tn OR ‘SELINA’:tn  OR ‘SENSILON’:tn OR ‘SENSONETTE’:tn OR ‘SIBILLA’:tn OR ‘SIBILLA DIARIO’:tn OR ‘SIBILLA  ZILNIC’:tn OR ‘SIDRETA’:tn OR ‘SIDRETELLA’:tn OR ‘SIENIMA’:tn OR ‘SIRONELLE’:tn OR  ‘SOFIPERLA’:tn OR ‘SOFIPERLA,’:tn OR ‘SOFTINE’:tn OR ‘SOFTINELLE’:tn OR ‘SOLDANELLE’:tn OR  ‘SOLERA’:tn OR ‘STARLETTA’:tn OR ‘STEDIRIL’:tn OR ‘STEFAMINELLE’:tn OR ‘STELLA’:tn OR  ‘STODETTE’:tn OR ‘STRELICIA’:tn OR ‘STYLIA’:tn OR ‘SUAVURET’:tn OR ‘SUNYA’:tn OR ‘SUSETTE’:tn  OR ‘SUZIA’:tn OR ‘SVELTA’:tn OR ‘SWINGO’:tn OR ‘SYLGESTREL’:tn OR ‘SYLGESTREL MITE’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 63/368   ‘SYLVIANE’:tn OR ‘SYLVIE 20’:tn OR ‘SYLVIE 30’:tn OR ‘SYMICIA’:tn OR ‘SYNDI -35’:tn OR  ‘SYNFASE’:tn OR ‘SYNPHASE’:tn OR ‘SYNPHASEC’:tn OR ‘SYRENE’:tn OR ‘TAISA’:tn OR  ‘TASMINETTA’:tn OR ‘TEENIA’:tn OR ‘TENTACIA’:tn OR ‘TESOFIN’:tn OR ‘LET’:tn OR ‘TOLUKIM’:tn OR  ‘TRENDESO’:tn OR ‘TRI - REGOL’:tn OR ‘TRI MINULET’:tn OR ‘TRI -FEMODEN’:tn OR ‘TRI -GYNERA’:tn  OR ‘TRIADENE’:tn OR ‘TRIAFEMI’:tn OR ‘TRIAGYNON’:tn OR ‘TRIASELLE’:tn OR ‘TRICICLOR’:tn OR  ‘TRICILEST’:tn OR ‘TRIELLA’:tn OR ‘TRIETTE’:tn OR ‘TRIGOA’:tn OR ‘TRIGYNON’:tn OR  ‘TRIGYNOVIN’:tn OR ‘TRIKVILAR’:tn OR ‘TRIMINETTA’:tn OR ‘TRIMINULET’:tn OR ‘TRINORDIOL’:tn OR  ‘TRINOVUM’:tn OR ‘TRIODENA’:tn OR ‘TRIODENE’:tn OR ‘TRIONETTA’:tn OR ‘TRIQUILAR’:tn OR  ‘TRIREGOL’:tn OR ‘TRISISTON’:tn OR ‘TRISTAT’:tn OR ‘TYARENA’:tn OR ‘VALDORIN 28’:tn OR  ‘VALETTE’:tn OR ‘VALLCLARA’:tn OR ‘VAREL’:tn OR ‘VARENA’:tn OR ‘VARENELLE’:tn OR ‘VARIANTA’:tn  OR ‘VARNOLINE’:tn OR ‘VELBIENNE’:tn OR ‘VELGIN’:tn OR ‘VELGYN’:tn OR ‘VELLENA’:tn OR  ‘VELMARI’:tn OR ‘VELVET -’:tn OR ‘VENDIOL’:tn OR ‘VERANA -’:tn OR ‘VEREZANA’:tn OR ‘VEXYA’:tn OR  ‘VEYA -’:tn OR ‘VEYANN’:tn OR ‘VEYANNE’:tn OR ‘VIBIN’:tn OR ‘VIBIN MINI’:tn OR ‘VILORA’:tn OR  ‘VINES’:tn OR ‘VIOLETTA’:tn OR ‘VIOLETTE’:tn OR ‘VISOFID’:tn OR ‘VIXPO’:tn OR ‘VOLINA’:tn OR  ‘VONILLE’:tn OR ‘VONODIOL’:tn OR ‘VREYA’:tn OR ‘WAVE ’:tn OR ‘WERRCA’:tn OR ‘XINDEA’:tn OR  ‘XYLIETTE’:tn OR ‘YACELLA’:tn OR ‘YADERE’:tn OR ‘YADINE’:tn OR ‘YALUVEA’:tn OR ‘YANELA’:tn OR  ‘YARA 20’:tn OR ‘YARA 30’:tn OR ‘YARA PLUS PLACEBO’:tn OR ‘YARINA’:tn OR ‘YASMIN’:tn OR  ‘YASMINELLE’:tn OR ‘YAZ’:tn OR ‘YERKES’:tn OR ‘YIRA’:tn OR ‘YIRALA’:tn OR ‘YIZNELL’:tn OR  ‘YIZNELL ED’:tn OR ‘YOSEFINNE’:tn OR ‘YRIS’:tn OR ‘YVETTE’:tn OR ‘YVIDUALLY’:tn OR ‘YVON’:tn OR  ‘ZAKIRA’:tn OR ‘ZEELAR CONTINUOUS’:tn OR ‘ZELLE’:tn OR ‘ZELLMINE’:tn OR ‘ZELLMINELLE’:tn OR  ‘ZENADEA’:tn OR ‘ZOA’:tn OR ‘ZULFIJA’:tn OR ‘ZYRONA’:tn OR ‘0.06MG GESTODENE/0.015MG  ETHINYL ESTRADIOL’:tn OR ‘0.15MG LEVONORGESTREL/0.03MG ETHINYL ESTRADIOL’:tn OR  ‘ABELONELLE 28’:tn OR ‘ADEPAL’:tn OR ‘ADOLESS’:tn OR ‘AIDA’:tn OR ‘AIXA’:tn OR ‘ALESSE’:tn OR  ‘ALEXA’:tn OR ‘ALLESTRA 20’:tn OR ‘ALTAVERA’:tn OR ‘ANGE 21’:tn OR ‘APRI’:tn OR ‘ARANELLE’:tn OR  ‘ARIANNA’:tn OR ‘ARTEMIDIS 35’:tn OR ‘AVIANE’:tn OR ‘AZURETTE’:tn OR ‘BELARA’:tn OR  ‘BELARINA’:tn OR ‘BELLA’:tn OR ‘BIPHASIL’:tn OR ‘BRENDA -35 ED’:tn OR ‘BREVICON’:tn OR  ‘BREVINOR’:tn OR ‘BRIELLYN’:tn OR ‘CAMRESE’:tn OR ‘CARMEN’:tn OR ‘CHLOE’:tn OR ‘CICLO 21’:tn  OR ‘CILEST’:tn OR ‘CO -CYPRINDIOL’:tn OR ‘CRYSELLE’:tn OR ‘CYCLAFEM 1/35’:tn OR ‘CYCLEANE’:tn  OR ‘CYCLEN’:tn OR ‘CYCLESSA’:tn OR ‘CYESTRA’:tn OR ‘CYPRODERM’:tn OR  ‘CYPROTERONACETAAT/ETHINYLESTRADIOL’:tn OR ‘DAILY’:tn OR ‘DAMSEL’:tn OR ‘DESIOLA 20’:tn OR  ‘DESMIN’:tn OR ‘DESOBEL’:tn OR ‘DESOGEN’:tn OR ‘DESOLETT’:tn OR ‘DESORELLE’:tn OR  ‘DESOREN’:tn OR ‘DIANE’:tn OR ‘DIANETTE’:tn OR ‘DICLIN’:tn OR ‘DIMINUT’:tn OR ‘DUOLUTON’:tn OR  ‘ELANI 28’:tn OR ‘ELEONOR’:tn OR ‘ELINEST’:tn OR ‘ELLEACNELLE’:tn OR ‘ELYFEM 20’:tn OR ‘ELYFEM  30’:tn OR ‘EMOQUETTE’:tn OR ‘ENPRESSE’:tn OR ‘ESTARYLLA’:tn OR ‘ESTELLE’:tn OR ‘ESTIGYN’:tn OR  ‘ESTINYL’:tn OR ‘ETHINYLESTRADIOL/DESOGESTREL’:tn OR  ‘ETHINYLESTRADIOL/LEVONORGESTREL’:tn OR ‘EUGYNON’:tn OR ‘EVANOR’:tn OR ‘EVRA’:tn OR  ‘FACETIX’:tn OR ‘FALMINA’:tn OR ‘FEMADIOL’:tn OR ‘FEMELLE’:tn OR ‘FEMIANE’:tn OR ‘FEMINA’:tn OR  ‘FEMINAC 35’:tn OR ‘FEMODEEN’:tn OR ‘FEMODEN’:tn OR ‘FEMODENE’:tn OR ‘FEMOVAN’:tn OR  ‘GESTINOL’:tn OR ‘GESTODEN PLUS’:tn OR ‘GIANVI’:tn OR ‘GINERA’:tn OR ‘GRACIAL’:tn OR  ‘GRAVISTAT’:tn OR ‘GYNERA’:tn OR ‘GYNOVIN’:tn OR ‘GYSELLE’:tn OR ‘GYSELLE 30’:tn OR  ‘HARMONET’:tn OR ‘INTROVALE’:tn OR ‘JASMINE’:tn OR ‘JEANINE’:tn OR ‘JOLESSA’:tn OR ‘JULIET - 35’:tn OR ‘KARIVA’:tn OR ‘LABELLEFILLE’:tn OR ‘LADONNA’:tn OR ‘LAILA -35 ED’:tn OR ‘LEENA’:tn OR  ‘LEIOS’:tn OR ‘LESSINA’:tn OR ‘LEVLEN’:tn OR ‘LEVLITE’:tn OR ‘LEVORA’:tn OR ‘LINDYNETTE’:tn OR  ‘LINESSA 28’:tn OR ‘LO/OVRAL’:tn OR ‘LOESTRIN’:tn OR ‘LOETTE’:tn OR ‘LOGEST’:tn OR  ‘LOGYNON’:tn OR ‘LORYNA’:tn OR ‘LOSEASONIQUE’:tn OR ‘LOVELLE’:tn OR ‘LOVETTE’:tn OR ‘LOW - OGESTREL’:tn OR ‘LOWETTE’:tn OR ‘LUNABELL’:tn OR ‘LUTERA’:tn OR ‘LYBREL’:tn OR ‘LYNORAL’:tn OR  ‘MARLISSA’:tn OR ‘MARVELON’:tn OR ‘MELIANE’:tn OR ‘MELODEN’:tn OR ‘MELODENE’:tn OR  ‘MELODIA’:tn OR ‘MERCILON’:tn OR ‘MICRODIOL’:tn OR ‘MICROGESTE’:tn OR ‘MICROGYN’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 64/368   ‘MICROGYNON’:tn OR ‘MICROVLAR’:tn OR ‘MIDIANA’:tn OR ‘MILVANE’:tn OR ‘MIN -OVRAL 21’:tn OR  ‘MIN-OVRAL 28’:tn OR ‘MINERVA’:tn OR ‘MINERVA -35’:tn OR ‘MINESSE’:tn OR ‘MINIAN’:tn OR  ‘MINIDRIL’:tn OR ‘MINIMA’:tn OR ‘MINISISTON’:tn OR ‘MINISISTON FEM’:tn OR ‘MINULET’:tn OR  ‘MIRANOVA’:tn OR ‘MIRCETTE’:tn OR ‘MIRELLE’:tn OR ‘MISTRAL’:tn OR ‘MODICON’:tn OR ‘MONEVA’:tn  OR ‘MONOFEME’:tn OR ‘MONONESSA’:tn OR ‘MYVLAR’:tn OR ‘NECON’:tn OR ‘NEOCON’:tn OR  ‘NEOVLAR’:tn OR ‘NEOVLETTA’:tn OR ‘NORDETTE’:tn OR ‘NORDIOL’:tn OR ‘NORETHIN’:tn OR  ‘NORIMIN’:tn OR ‘NORINYL 1+35’:tn OR ‘NORTREL’:tn OR ‘NOVIAL’:tn OR ‘NOVYNETTE’:tn OR  ‘NUVARING’:tn OR ‘OCELLA’:tn OR ‘OGESTREL 0.5/50’:tn OR ‘OLOGYN MICRO’:tn OR ‘ORALCON’:tn OR  ‘ORSYTHIA’:tn OR ‘ORTHO’:tn OR ‘ORTHO -NOVUM’:tn OR ‘OVANON’:tn OR ‘OVCON’:tn OR ‘OVIDOL’:tn  OR ‘OVRAL’:tn OR ‘PETIBELLE’:tn OR ‘PLANOVAR’:tn OR ‘PLANUM’:tn OR ‘PORTIA’:tn OR ‘PRACTIL’:tn  OR ‘PRAMINO’:tn OR ‘PREVEN’:tn OR ‘PREVIFEM’:tn OR ‘PROSEXOL’:tn OR ‘QUARTETTE’:tn OR  ‘QUASENSE’:tn OR ‘RECLIPSEN’:tn OR ‘REGULON’:tn OR ‘RIGEVIDON’:tn OR ‘SEASONALE’:tn OR  ‘SEASONIQUE’:tn OR ‘SELENE’:tn OR ‘SIBLIMA’:tn OR ‘SOLIA’:tn OR ‘SPRINTEC’:tn OR ‘SRONYX’:tn OR  ‘STEDIRIL’:tn OR ‘SUCEE’:tn OR ‘SYEDA’:tn OR ‘SYNPHASE’:tn OR ‘SYNPHASIC’:tn OR  ‘TETRAGYNON’:tn OR ‘TRI PREVIFEM’:tn OR ‘TRI -CYCLEN’:tn OR ‘TRI -ESTARYLLA’:tn OR ‘TRI -LEVLEN  21’:tn OR ‘TRI -LO-SPRINTEC’:tn OR ‘TRI -NORINYL’:tn OR ‘TRI -SPRINTEC’:tn OR ‘TRIADENE’:tn OR  ‘TRICICLOR’:tn OR ‘TRIDIOL’:tn OR ‘TRIELLA’:tn OR ‘TRIETTE’:tn OR ‘TRIFEME’:tn OR ‘TRIGOA’:tn OR  ‘TRIGYNON’:tn OR ‘TRIKVILAR’:tn OR ‘TRINESSA’:tn OR ‘TRINORDIOL’:tn OR ‘TRINOVUM’:tn OR  ‘TRIODENE’:tn OR ‘TRIPHASIL’:tn OR ‘TRIQUILAR’:tn OR ‘TRISISTON’:tn OR ‘TRIVORA’:tn OR  ‘TÂMISA’:tn OR ‘VALETTE’:tn OR ‘VARNOLINE’:tn OR ‘VELIVET’:tn OR ‘VIVELLE’:tn OR ‘XULANE’:tn OR  ‘YARINA’:tn OR ‘YASMIN’:tn OR ‘YASMINELLE’:tn OR ‘YASMINIQ’:tn OR ‘YAZ’:tn OR ‘YIRA’:tn OR  ‘ZARAH’:tn OR ‘ZENCHENT’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   19. Losartan   ‘LOSARTAN’ OR ‘LOSARTANAS’ OR ‘LOSARTANUM’ OR ‘LOSARTÁN’ OR ‘LOSARTAN’ OR ‘ANCOZAN’:tn  OR ‘ARATIS FARBIO’:tn OR ‘ARBARTAN’:tn OR ‘ARIONEX’:tn OR ‘ASORTEK’:tn OR ‘CARDIZAR’:tn OR  ‘COSAAR’:tn OR ‘COSARTAL’:tn OR ‘COVANCE’:tn OR ‘COZAAR’:tn OR ‘COZAPERT’:tn OR ‘COZATAN’:tn  OR ‘DALOSAR’:tn OR ‘DECARA’:tn OR ‘ENTRIZEN’:tn OR ‘GOLASAN’:tn OR ‘HYPOZAR’:tn OR  ‘KALIUMLOSARTAN’:tn OR ‘KALIUMLOSARTAN/HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE LICONSA’:tn OR ‘LAKEA’:tn  OR ‘LANOSAR’:tn OR ‘LASTAN’:tn OR ‘LAVESTRA’:tn OR ‘LICOLOS’:tn OR ‘LOBEN’:tn OR ‘LOCARDIN’:tn  OR ‘LODIAL’:tn OR ‘LOORTAN’:tn OR ‘LOPRESS’:tn OR ‘LOREBLOK’:tn OR ‘LORFAST’:tn OR  ‘LORIDAN’:tn OR ‘LORISTA’:tn OR ‘LOROTENS’:tn OR ‘LORTAAN’:tn OR ‘LORTAAN IC’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 65/368   ‘LORTAZIL’:tn OR ‘LORZAAR’:tn OR ‘LOSACOR’:tn OR ‘LOSADRAC’:tn OR ‘LOSAFOX’:tn OR  ‘LOSAGEN’:tn OR ‘LOSAGRÜN’:tn OR ‘LOSAHELM’:tn OR ‘LOSALET’:tn OR ‘LOSANIN’:tn OR  ‘LOSANOX’:tn OR ‘LOSAPREX’:tn OR ‘LOSAR’:tn OR ‘LOSAR -Q’:tn OR ‘LOSARB’:tn OR  ‘LOSARGAMMA’:tn OR ‘LOSARICCA’:tn OR ‘LOSARIL’:tn OR ‘LOSARIX’:tn OR ‘LOSARLIC’:tn OR  ‘LOSARSTAD’:tn OR ‘LOSARTAN’:tn OR ‘LOSARTAN’:tn OR ‘LOSARTAN/ HCTZ’:tn OR  ‘LOSARTAN/HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR ‘LOSARTANKALIUM’:tn OR ‘LOSARTIC’:tn OR  ‘LOSATHINA’:tn OR ‘LOSATRIX’:tn OR ‘LOTAN’:tn OR ‘LOTANEC’:tn OR ‘LOTANOS’:tn OR ‘LOTAR’:tn OR  ‘LOZANEL’:tn OR ‘LOZART’:tn OR ‘LOZATAN’:tn OR ‘LYOSAN’:tn OR ‘MAROZID’:tn OR ‘MOZARTAN’:tn  OR ‘MYZAAR’:tn OR ‘NEO -LOTAN’:tn OR ‘OZARIUM’:tn OR ‘PORTIRON’:tn OR ‘PRECTEN’:tn OR  ‘PRELOW’:tn OR ‘PRELOW PLUS’:tn OR ‘PRESARTAN’:tn OR ‘PRESMIN’:tn OR ‘PRESS -DOWN’:tn OR  ‘PROELSARTAN’:tn OR ‘RABOLAN’:tn OR ‘RASOLTAN’:tn OR ‘SARTAL’:tn OR ‘SARTENS’:tn OR  ‘SARVE’:tn OR ‘SIDOK’:tn OR ‘SOLARTAN’:tn OR ‘SOLUVASS’:tn OR ‘SORTABAX’:tn OR ‘STADAZAR’:tn  OR ‘TALOSAN’:tn OR ‘TARNASOL PLUS’:tn OR ‘TENLOSAR’:tn OR ‘TENLOSARIAN’:tn OR ‘TERVALON’:tn  OR ‘TOVETOL’:tn OR ‘XARTAN’:tn OR ‘ZEPREZ’:tn OR ‘ZEPREZE’:tn OR ‘ZOVENCAL’:tn OR  ‘LOSARTAN’:tn OR ‘ARA 2’:tn OR ‘ARADOIS’:tn OR ‘CIPLAZAR’:tn OR ‘CORUS’:tn OR ‘COSAAR’:tn OR  ‘COVANCE’:tn OR ‘COZAAR’:tn OR ‘COZAAREX’:tn OR ‘DECARA’:tn OR ‘ERYNORM’:tn OR ‘LIFEZAR’:tn  OR ‘LODESTAR’:tn OR ‘LOPLAC’:tn OR ‘LOPRESS’:tn OR ‘LORANTA’:tn OR ‘LORISTA’:tn OR  ‘LORTAAN’:tn OR ‘LORZAAR’:tn OR ‘LOSACAR’:tn OR ‘LOSACOR’:tn OR ‘LOSAPREX’:tn OR ‘LOSAR’:tn  OR ‘LOSARDEX’:tn OR ‘LOSARTAN’:tn OR ‘LOSARTAN -KALIUM’:tn OR ‘LOSARTEC’:tn OR ‘LOSARTIC’:tn  OR ‘LOSARTION’:tn OR ‘LOTAN’:tn OR ‘LOTAR’:tn OR ‘LOZAP’:tn OR ‘NEO -LOTAN’:tn OR ‘NU -LOTAN’:tn  OR ‘OCSAAR’:tn OR ‘PAXON’:tn OR ‘PRESARTAN’:tn OR ‘RASOLTAN’:tn OR ‘LOSARTAN’:tn OR  ‘SARİLEN’:tn OR ‘TANZARIL’:tn OR ‘TEMISARTAN’:tn OR ‘TORLOS’:tn OR ‘TORLÓS’:tn OR  ‘VALTRIAN’:tn OR ‘ZAARPRESS’:tn OR ‘ZARTAN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   20. Olanzapine   ‘OLANZAPINE’ OR ‘OLANZAPIN’ OR ‘OLANZAPÍN’ OR ‘OLANZAPINĂ’ OR ‘OLANZAPINA’ OR  ‘OLANZAPINA’ OR ‘OLANZAPIN’ OR ‘OLANZAPĪNS’ OR ‘OLANZAPINAS’ OR ‘OLANZAPINUM’ OR  ‘OLANZAPINA’ OR ‘OLANZAPIN’ OR ‘OLANZAPIN’ OR ‘OLANZAPIN’ OR ‘OLANTSAPIINI’ OR ‘OLANSAPIIN’  OR ‘OLANZAPINA’ OR ‘OLANZAPIN’ OR ‘AEDON’:tn OR ‘ANZORIN’:tn OR ‘ARENBIL’:tn OR  ‘ARKOLAMY’:tn OR ‘ARKOLAMYL’:tn OR ‘ATYZYO’:tn OR ‘BLOONIS’:tn OR ‘CAPRILON’:tn OR  ‘EGOLANZA’:tn OR ‘FIONAPEL’:tn OR ‘FORDEP’:tn OR ‘FREDILAN’:tn OR ‘IRROPIA’:tn OR ‘KOZYLEX’:tn  OR ‘KYNAPINE’:tn OR ‘LANZAFEN’:tn OR ‘LANZAPIS’:tn OR ‘LAPENZA’:tn OR ‘LAPOZAN’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 66/368   ‘LASAPIX’:tn OR ‘LAZAP’:tn OR ‘LAZAPIR’:tn OR ‘NEWZYPRA’:tn OR ‘NOLIAN’:tn OR ‘NORPEN ORO’:tn  OR ‘NYKOB’:tn OR ‘NYZOL’:tn OR ‘OLAFID’:tn OR ‘OLAFLY’:tn OR ‘OLANDIX’:tn OR ‘OLANSEK’:tn OR  ‘OLANZAGAMMA LINGUAL’:tn OR ‘OLANZALET’:tn OR ‘OLANZALUX’:tn OR ‘OLANZAOIN’:tn OR  ‘OLANZAPIN’:tn OR ‘OLANZAPINA’:tn OR ‘OLANZAPINE’:tn OR ‘OLANZARAN’:tn OR ‘OLANZIN’:tn OR  ‘OLAPINE’:tn OR ‘OLASTAZEN’:tn OR ‘OLASYN’:tn OR ‘OLAZAX’:tn OR ‘OLENXA’:tn OR ‘OLEXAR’:tn OR  ‘OLMYZEM’:tn OR ‘OLPINAT’:tn OR ‘OLZAPIN’:tn OR ‘OLZIN’:tn OR ‘ONEZYP’:tn OR ‘OZAPEX’:tn OR  ‘OZAPRAM’:tn OR ‘PARNASSAN’:tn OR ‘RANOFREN’:tn OR ‘ROLYPREXA’:tn OR ‘STYGAPON’:tn OR  ‘SYNZA’:tn OR ‘VAIRA’:tn OR ‘VILLAMOS’:tn OR ‘WRANELON’:tn OR ‘XOLTIVA’:tn OR ‘ZALASTA’:tn OR  ‘ZALEPIN’:tn OR ‘ZAMIL’:tn OR ‘ZAPILUX’:tn OR ‘ZAPRIS’:tn OR ‘ZAPYN’:tn OR ‘ZERPI’:tn OR  ‘ZIORA’:tn OR ‘ZOLAFREN’:tn OR ‘ZOLASWIFT’:tn OR ‘ZOLAXA’:tn OR ‘ZOLRIX’:tn OR ‘ZONAPIN’:tn OR  ‘ZOPRIDOXIN’:tn OR ‘ZOXIL’:tn OR ‘ZYLANZA’:tn OR ‘ZYPADHERA’:tn OR ‘ZYPEFAR’:tn OR  ‘ZYPREXA’:tn OR ‘CO OLANZAPINE’:tn OR ‘MIDAX’:tn OR ‘NEUPINE’:tn OR ‘OLANZAPIN’:tn OR  ‘OLANZAPINA’:tn OR ‘OLEXAR’:tn OR ‘OLNEGİS’:tn OR ‘ONZAPIN’:tn OR ‘OZIN’:tn OR ‘PMS - OLANZAPINE’:tn OR ‘REXAPIN’:tn OR ‘ -OLANZAPINE’:tn OR ‘ZALASTA’:tn OR ‘ZOLAFREN’:tn OR  ‘ZOPINA’:tn OR ‘ZYPADHERA’:tn OR ‘ZYPINE’:tn OR ‘ZYPREXA’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   21. Clopidogrel   ‘CLOPIDOGREL’ OR ‘KLOPIDOGREL’ OR ‘KLOPIDOGRELS’ OR ‘KLOPIDOGRELA’ OR ‘KLOPIDOGRELIO’ OR  ‘KLOPIDOGRELIS’ OR ‘CLOPIDOGRELUM’ OR ‘KLOPIDOGRÉL’ OR ‘KLOPIDOGREEL’ OR  ‘CLOPIDOGRELUM’ OR ‘ACLOP’:tn OR ‘AGREGEX’:tn OR ‘AGRELAN’:tn OR ‘ALIROM’:tn OR  ‘ANGICLOD’:tn OR ‘ARAPAMIN’:tn OR ‘AREPLEX’:tn OR ‘ATROMBIN’:tn OR ‘BLODEGREL’:tn OR  ‘CARDER’:tn OR ‘CLOCARDIO’:tn OR ‘CLODEL’:tn OR ‘CLODELIB’:tn OR ‘CLOGREL’:tn OR  ‘CLOGRELHEXAL’:tn OR ‘CLOPACIN’:tn OR ‘CLOPEZ’:tn OR ‘CLOPICARO’:tn OR ‘CLOPIDEP’:tn OR  ‘CLOPIDIX’:tn OR ‘CLOPIDOGREL/ACETYLSALICYLIC ACID’ OR ‘CLOPIDOGREL/ACETYLSALICYLZUUR’:tn  OR ‘CLOPIDOGREL/ASA’:tn OR ‘CLOPIDOGREL/ASS’:tn OR ‘CLOPIDOLUT’:tn OR ‘CLOPIDOMED’:tn OR  ‘CLOPIDONORM’:tn OR ‘CLOPIDOSIN’:tn OR ‘CLOPIDOSYN’:tn OR ‘CLOPIDROGEL’:tn OR  ‘CLOPIGAMMA’:tn OR ‘CLOPIGREN’:tn OR ‘CLOPILUX’:tn OR ‘CLOPIMEF’:tn OR ‘CLOPIMYL’:tn OR  ‘CLOPINOVO’:tn OR ‘CLOPIRAL’:tn OR ‘CLOPIROD’:tn OR ‘CLOPISES’:tn OR ‘CLOPISETA’:tn OR  ‘CLOPLATE’:tn OR ‘CLORIOCARD’:tn OR ‘CLORODEN’:tn OR ‘CLOROPID’:tn OR ‘CLOVA’:tn OR  ‘CLOVELEN’:tn OR ‘CLOVIX’:tn OR ‘DAPIXOL’:tn OR ‘DARXA’:tn OR ‘DASOGREL -S’:tn OR ‘DEFROZYP’:tn  OR ‘DEMOGREL’:tn OR ‘DENOVEX’:tn OR ‘DEPLATT’:tn OR ‘DICLOP’:tn OR ‘DUOCOVER’:tn OR  ‘DUOPLAVIN’:tn OR ‘EGITROMB’:tn OR ‘ESPELIO’:tn OR ‘FARCET’:tn OR ‘FILILEX’:tn OR ‘GLOBEL’:tn     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 67/368   OR ‘GLOPENEL’:tn OR ‘GRELIDOHEX’:tn OR ‘GREPID’:tn OR ‘HECLOM’:tn OR ‘IDEQUIL’:tn OR  ‘ISCODIL’:tn OR ‘ISCOVER’:tn OR ‘ISROEN’:tn OR ‘KAISSAN’:tn OR ‘KARDOGREL’:tn OR ‘KERBERAN’:tn  OR ‘KLOPIDEX’:tn OR ‘KOGREL’:tn OR ‘LARVIN’:tn OR ‘LOFRADYK’:tn OR ‘LOPIGALEL’:tn OR  ‘MABOCLOP’:tn OR ‘MESIPROC’:tn OR ‘MIFLEXIN’:tn OR ‘MOYTOR’:tn OR ‘NIACLOP’:tn OR  ‘NOFARDOM’:tn OR ‘NOGREG’:tn OR ‘NOVIGREL’:tn OR ‘PEGOREL’:tn OR ‘PIGREL’:tn OR ‘PLAGREL’:tn  OR ‘PLAQUEX’:tn OR ‘PLAREL’:tn OR ‘PLASIVER’:tn OR ‘PLATEL’:tn OR ‘PLAVIDOSA’:tn OR ‘PLAVIX’:tn  OR ‘PLAVIX PLUS’:tn OR ‘PLAVOCORIN’:tn OR ‘PLAVOGREL’:tn OR ‘PONTIUS’:tn OR ‘PRAVIDEL’:tn OR  ‘REVLIS’:tn OR ‘SANVIX’:tn OR ‘SARIX’:tn OR ‘SIDEZUM’:tn OR ‘TANSIX’:tn OR ‘TESSYRON’:tn OR  ‘THROIMPER’:tn OR ‘THROMBOGREL’:tn OR ‘TROGRAN’:tn OR ‘TROMBEKS’:tn OR ‘TROMBEX’:tn OR  ‘UNPLAQUE’:tn OR ‘VATOUD’:tn OR ‘VIXAM’:tn OR ‘ZAKOGREL’:tn OR ‘ZALIBER’:tn OR ‘ZITOMBE’:tn  OR ‘ZOPYA’:tn OR ‘ZYLLT’:tn OR ‘AGREGEX’:tn OR ‘CERUVIN’:tn OR ‘CLAVIX’:tn OR ‘CLOPIDEXCEL’:tn  OR ‘CLOPIDIX’:tn OR ‘CLOPIN’:tn OR ‘CLOPIVAS’:tn OR ‘CLOPRA’:tn OR ‘CLOVIX’:tn OR  ‘COMPLAVIN’:tn OR ‘COPLAVIX’:tn OR ‘CPG’:tn OR ‘DARXA’:tn OR ‘DEGREGAN’:tn OR ‘DEPLATT’:tn OR  ‘DILOXOL’:tn OR ‘DUOCOVER’:tn OR ‘DUOPLAVIN’:tn OR ‘EGITROMB’:tn OR ‘FLUCOGREL’:tn OR  ‘ISCOVER’:tn OR ‘LOPIGREL’:tn OR ‘LOPIREL’:tn OR ‘NEFAZAN’:tn OR ‘PIAX’:tn OR ‘PLAGERINE’:tn OR  ‘PLAGREL’:tn OR ‘PLAGRIL’:tn OR ‘PLANOR’:tn OR ‘PLAQ’:tn OR ‘PLATEL’:tn OR ‘PLAVIHEX’:tn OR  ‘PLAVIX’:tn OR ‘VACLO’:tn OR ‘VASTEC’:tn OR ‘ZYLLT’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   22. Risperidone   ‘RISPERIDONE’ OR ‘RISPERIDON’ OR ‘3 -[2-[4-(6-FLUORO -1,2-BENZOXAZOL -3-YL)PIPERIDIN -1- YL]ETHYL] -2-METHYL -6,7,8,9 -TETRAHYDROPYRIDO[2,1 -B]PYRIMIDIN -4-ONE’ OR ‘RISPERIDONA’ OR  ‘RISPERIDÓNU’ OR ‘RISPERIDONA’ OR ‘RISPERIDONA’ OR ‘RYSPERYDONU’ OR ‘RYSPERYDON’ OR  ‘RISPERIDONS’ OR ‘RISPERIDONAS’ OR ‘RISPERIDONUM’ OR ‘RISPÉRIDONE’ OR ‘RISPERIDONI’ OR  ‘RISPERIDOON’ OR ‘RISPERIDONA’ OR ‘RISPERIDONUM’ OR ‘ADOVIA’:tn OR ‘ALEPTAN’:tn OR  ‘ALEPTOLAN’:tn OR ‘RISPERID’:tn OR ‘ARKETIN’:tn OR ‘AXELABRON’:tn OR ‘BELASPERDAL -S’:tn OR  ‘CALMAPRIDE’:tn OR ‘CAPULTON’:tn OR ‘DEPOLAN’:tn OR ‘DETERON’:tn OR ‘DIAFORIN’:tn OR  ‘DIAFORÍN’:tn OR ‘DIXINE’:tn OR ‘DOPRIFANE’:tn OR ‘EPERON’:tn OR ‘EVITRAT’:tn OR ‘HELPOSPER’:tn  OR ‘HUNPERDAL’:tn OR ‘ISIPREDON’:tn OR ‘LASSEN’:tn OR ‘LINIPON’:tn OR ‘MEDORISPER’:tn OR  ‘MUISTIN’:tn OR ‘NATIBO’:tn OR ‘NECLAV’:tn OR ‘NODIRIL’:tn OR ‘NOVORIS’:tn OR ‘ORIZON’:tn OR  ‘OROSPAR’:tn OR ‘OROTRAL’:tn OR ‘PERDAMEL’:tn OR ‘PERDOX’:tn OR ‘PHARMARIDON’:tn OR  ‘PROSPERA’:tn OR ‘PSYCHORDAL’:tn OR ‘RANPERIDON’:tn OR ‘RIBEX’:tn OR ‘RIDORON’:tn OR  ‘RIDROZAL’:tn OR ‘RIFOCUS’:tn OR ‘RILEPTID’:tn OR ‘RIPEPRAL’:tn OR ‘RIPERIDONA’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 68/368   ‘RISDONAL’:tn OR ‘RISDRAL 6MG’:tn OR ‘RISENAR’:tn OR ‘RISEPRO’:tn OR ‘RISGAL’:tn OR  ‘RISIDRAL’:tn OR ‘RISMYL’:tn OR ‘RISNIA’:tn OR ‘RISOCON’:tn OR ‘RISPALAN’:tn OR ‘RISPALM’:tn OR  ‘RISPARET’:tn OR ‘RISPAS’:tn OR ‘RISPATAL’:tn OR ‘RISPAXOL’:tn OR ‘RISPEFAR’:tn OR ‘RISPELEN’:tn  OR ‘RISPEMYL’:tn OR ‘RISPE’:tn OR ‘RISPEN’:tn OR ‘RISPENET’:tn OR ‘RISPERA’:tn OR  ‘RISPERANNE’:tn OR ‘RISPERASCOL’:tn OR ‘RISPERAT’:tn OR ‘RISPERCOL’:tn OR ‘RISPERDAL’:tn OR  ‘RISPERDALORO’:tn OR ‘RISPERIDONA’:tn OR ‘RISPERIDONĂ’:tn OR ‘RISPERIGAMMA’:tn OR  ‘RISPERI’:tn OR ‘RISPEROC’:tn OR ‘RISPERON’:tn OR ‘RISPEROPROL’:tn OR ‘RISPERSAN’:tn OR  ‘RISPEVA’:tn OR ‘RISPOGEN’:tn OR ‘RISPOLEPT’:tn OR ‘RISPOLUX’:tn OR ‘RISPONE’:tn OR  ‘RISPONS’:tn OR ‘RISSET’:tn OR ‘RONYDAL’:tn OR ‘RORENDO’:tn OR ‘RUBRUM’:tn OR ‘RYSPOLIT’:tn  OR ‘RÍSON’:tn OR ‘SPERIDAN’:tn OR ‘SPRING’:tn OR ‘STADARISP’:tn OR ‘TORENDO’:tn OR  ‘WISPERDON’:tn OR ‘XENOMA’:tn OR ‘ZAFITRAL’:tn OR ‘ZIPERID’:tn OR ‘ZORIDAL’:tn OR ‘ACTASE’:tn  OR ‘RISPERIDONE’:tn OR ‘ASPIDON’:tn OR ‘CO RISPERIDONE’:tn OR ‘DRL RISPERIDONE’:tn OR ‘PMS - RISPERIDONE’:tn OR ‘RAN -RISPERIDONE’:tn OR ‘RESDONE’:tn OR ‘RESICALM’:tn OR ‘RIATUL’:tn OR  ‘RIDAL’:tn OR ‘RILEPTID’:tn OR ‘RISDONAL’:tn OR ‘RISPA’:tn OR ‘RISPAXOL’:tn OR ‘RISPEN’:tn OR  ‘RISPERDAL’:tn OR ‘RISPERDALCONSTA’:tn OR ‘RISPERIDONA’:tn OR ‘RISPERIN’:tn OR ‘RISPERLET’:tn  OR ‘RISPEROPROL’:tn OR ‘RISPOLEPT’:tn OR ‘RISPOLUX’:tn OR ‘RISPOND’:tn OR ‘RISSET’:tn OR  ‘RIXADONE’:tn OR ‘ROZIDAL’:tn OR ‘SPERIDAN’:tn OR ‘TORENDO’:tn OR ‘ZARGUS’:tn AND ('adverse  drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR  'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   23. Tamsulosin   ‘TAMSULOSIN’ OR ‘TAMSULOZÍN’ OR ‘TAMSULOSINE’ OR ‘TAMSULOSINUM’ OR ‘TAMSULOZIN’ OR  ‘TAMSULOSINA’ OR ‘AGLANDIN’:tn OR ‘ALBLOCK’:tn OR ‘ALNA’:tn OR ‘ANTUNES’:tn OR ‘TAMIS’:tn OR  ‘TAMSULOSIN’:tn OR ‘BAZETHAM’:tn OR ‘BOTAM’:tn OR ‘COMBODART’:tn OR ‘CONTIFLO’:tn OR  ‘COSITAM’:tn OR ‘DIFFUNDOX’:tn OR ‘DUAMILD’:tn OR ‘DUODART’:tn OR ‘DUTASTERID - TAMSULOSINHYDROCHLORID’:tn OR ‘DUTASTERIDE/TAMSULOSINA’:tn OR ‘EXPROS’:tn OR  ‘FARAMSIL’:tn OR ‘FLECTONE’:tn OR ‘FLOSIN’:tn OR ‘FOKUSIN’:tn OR ‘GALEBON’:tn OR ‘INREQ’:tn OR  ‘JUTEO’:tn OR ‘KIRNOM’:tn OR ‘KIRTACAP’:tn OR ‘LANNATAM’:tn OR ‘LOSINATE’:tn OR ‘LURA’:tn OR  ‘MAGRIR’:tn OR ‘MAPELOR’:tn OR ‘MASULIN’:tn OR ‘MECIR’:tn OR ‘MIKTAN’:tn OR ‘MIKTOSAN’:tn OR  ‘MODIAR’:tn OR ‘MORVESIN’:tn OR ‘OMEXEL’:tn OR ‘OMI -TAM’:tn OR ‘OMIC OCAS’:tn OR ‘OMIX’:tn OR  ‘OMNEXEL’:tn OR ‘OMNIC’:tn OR ‘OMNISTAD’:tn OR ‘OMSAL’:tn OR ‘OMSIL’:tn OR ‘OMSULA’:tn OR  ‘PAMSVAX’:tn OR ‘PETYME’:tn OR ‘PINEXEL’:tn OR ‘PRADIF’:tn OR ‘PROMICTAN’:tn OR ‘PROSOLVIN’:tn  OR ‘PROSTACURE’:tn OR ‘PROSTADIL’:tn OR ‘PROSTAMNIC’:tn OR ‘PROSTHON’:tn OR ‘PROSURIN’:tn  OR ‘PROTAM’:tn OR ‘PROVOSAL’:tn OR ‘RANLOSIN’:tn OR ‘RANOMAX’:tn OR ‘SEBRANE’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 69/368   ‘SOLESMIN’:tn OR ‘STICHTULOSIN’:tn OR ‘STRONAZON’:tn OR ‘SYMLOSIN’:tn OR ‘TABPHYN’:tn OR  ‘TACAP’:tn OR ‘TADIN’:tn OR ‘TAFLOSIN’:tn OR ‘TALPRO’:tn OR ‘TALUSO’:tn OR ‘TAMAGSYN’:tn OR  ‘TAMDOSIL’:tn OR ‘TAMFREX’:tn OR ‘TAMICTOR’:tn OR ‘TAMIPRO’:tn OR ‘TAMISPRAS’:tn OR  ‘TAMLIC’:tn OR ‘TAMNEXYL’:tn OR ‘TAMNIC’:tn OR ‘TAMOSIN’:tn OR ‘TAMSACT’:tn OR ‘TAMSICH’:tn  OR ‘TAMSOL’:tn OR ‘TAMSOLET’:tn OR ‘TAMSU’:tn OR ‘TAMSUBLOCK’:tn OR ‘TAMSUCINFA’:tn OR  ‘TAMSUDA’:tn OR ‘TAMSUDIL’:tn OR ‘TAMSUGARAN’:tn OR ‘TAMSUGEN’:tn OR ‘TAMSULEK’:tn OR  ‘TAMSULIJN’:tn OR ‘TAMSULIN’:tn OR ‘TAMSULO -ISIS’:tn OR ‘TAMSULOGEN’:tn OR  ‘TAMSULOSIINIHYDROKLORIDI’:tn OR ‘TAMSULOSINEHYDROCHLORIDE’:tn OR  ‘TAMSULOSINHYDROCHLORID’:tn OR ‘TAMSULOZIN’:tn OR ‘TAMSUMIN’:tn OR ‘TAMSUNAR’:tn OR  ‘TAMSUNORM’:tn OR ‘TAMSUPLI’:tn OR ‘TAMTA’:tn OR ‘TAMUREX’:tn OR ‘TAMUROX’:tn OR  ‘TANSULOSINA’:tn OR ‘TANYZ’:tn OR ‘TANYZ ERAS’:tn OR ‘TIATAB’:tn OR ‘TOTALPROST’:tn OR  ‘TULOSIN’:tn OR ‘UPROX’:tn OR ‘UPROX’:tn OR ‘URIMAX’:tn OR ‘URIZIA’:tn OR ‘URIZIA’:tn OR  ‘UROLOSIN’:tn OR ‘UROMEN’:tn OR ‘UROSTAD’:tn OR ‘UROTAM’:tn OR ‘VESOMNI’:tn OR ‘VOLUTSA’:tn  OR ‘ZIDROLIN’:tn OR ‘ZUANTRIP’:tn OR ‘ALNA’:tn OR ‘BETAMSAL’:tn OR ‘COMBODART’:tn OR  ‘DUODART’:tn OR ‘EXPROS’:tn OR ‘FLOMAX’:tn OR ‘FLOMAXTRA’:tn OR ‘FLOSIN’:tn OR ‘FOKUSIN’:tn  OR ‘HALONEROL’:tn OR ‘HALTHROW’:tn OR ‘HARANASIN’:tn OR ‘HARNAL’:tn OR ‘HARNALD’:tn OR  ‘HARNALIDGE’:tn OR ‘HARTAM’:tn OR ‘JALYN’:tn OR ‘JOSIR’:tn OR ‘MAPELOR’:tn OR ‘MECIR’:tn OR  ‘OMEXEL’:tn OR ‘OMIX’:tn OR ‘OMNIC’:tn OR ‘PALNAC’:tn OR ‘PRADIF’:tn OR ‘PROSTADIL’:tn OR  ‘REDUPROST’:tn OR ‘RESTREAM’:tn OR ‘SECOTEX’:tn OR ‘TAMOSIN’:tn OR ‘TAMSLON’:tn OR  ‘TAMSOL’:tn OR ‘TAMSUGEN’:tn OR ‘TAMSULIN’:tn OR ‘TAMSULON’:tn OR ‘TAMSULOSINI  HYDROCHLORIDUM’:tn OR ‘TAMZUL’:tn OR ‘TANSILOPROST’:tn OR ‘TANSULOSINA’:tn OR ‘URIMAX’:tn  AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR  misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp  OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   24. Aciclovir   ‘ACICLOVIR’ OR ‘ACYCLOVIR’ OR ‘ACYKLOWIR’ OR ‘ACIKLOVĪRA’ OR ‘ACIKLOVIRS’ OR ‘ACIKLOVIRAS’  OR ‘ACICLOVIRUM’ OR ‘ASIKLOVIIRIN’ OR ‘ACERPES CREME BEI LIPPENHERPES’:tn OR ‘ACIC’:tn OR  ‘ACICLIN’:tn OR ‘ACICLINLABIALE’:tn OR ‘ACICLO’:tn OR ‘ACICLOBENE’:tn OR ‘ACICLOBETA’:tn OR  ‘ACICLODAN’:tn OR ‘ACICLOSINA’:tn OR ‘ACICLOSTAD’:tn OR ‘ACICLOVAX’:tn OR ‘ACIVIR’:tn OR  ‘ACIX’:tn OR ‘ACLOTAD’:tn OR ‘ACLOVIR’:tn OR ‘ACTION COLD SORE/BOOTS AVERT COLD  SORE/SAINSBURYS COLD SORE/TESCO COLD SORE’:tn OR ‘ACTIVIR’:tn OR ‘ACY’:tn OR  ‘ACYCLOSTAD’:tn OR ‘ACYRAX’:tn OR ‘ALOVEXLABIALE’:tn OR ‘AMITROX’:tn OR ‘AMODIVYR’:tn OR  ‘ANTI’:tn OR ‘ANTIX’:tn OR ‘AVIROX’:tn OR ‘AVIX’:tn OR ‘BEL LABIAL’:tn OR ‘CARGOSIL’:tn OR  ‘CEVINOLON’:tn OR ‘CICLOVIRAL’:tn OR ‘CITIVIR’:tn OR ‘CIVRAL’:tn OR ‘CONTRA’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 70/368   ‘CYCLOVAX’:tn OR ‘CYCLOVIRAN’:tn OR ‘DIVICIL’:tn OR ‘DRAVYR’:tn OR ‘DYNEXAN HERPES’:tn OR  ‘EFRIVIRAL’:tn OR ‘EFRIVIRALLABIALE’:tn OR ‘ERPACLOVIR’:tn OR ‘ERPIZON’:tn OR ‘ESAVIR’:tn OR  ‘FAULVIRAL’:tn OR ‘FUSEXTRINE’:tn OR ‘GEAVIR’:tn OR ‘HASCOVIR’:tn OR ‘HELPOSOL’:tn OR  ‘HERMIX’:tn OR ‘HERPAVIR’:tn OR ‘HERPESEDERMYL’:tn OR ‘HERPESIN’:tn OR ‘HERPEVIR’:tn OR  ‘HERPEX’:tn OR ‘HERPIAL’:tn OR ‘HERPLEX’:tn OR ‘HERPOLIPS’:tn OR ‘HEVIRAN’:tn OR ‘KENDIX’:tn OR  ‘KOORTSLIPCRÈME’:tn OR ‘LABIRIAD’:tn OR ‘LEIDAPHARM KOORTSLIPCRÈME ACICLOVIR’:tn OR  ‘LIPPENHERPESCREME ELAC’:tn OR ‘LIPSORE CREAM’:tn OR ‘MEDOVIR’:tn OR ‘NEVIRAN’:tn OR  ‘OZIPAX’:tn OR ‘PROVIRSAN’:tn OR ‘REMEX’:tn OR ‘SANAVIR’:tn OR ‘SINAFID’:tn OR  ‘SINAFIDLABIALE’:tn OR ‘SITAVIG’:tn OR ‘SYNTOVIR’:tn OR ‘TELVIRAN’:tn OR ‘UNIPLEX’:tn OR  ‘VIRACTIVE’:tn OR ‘VIRALIEF’:tn OR ‘VIRANTI’:tn OR ‘VIRASORB COLD SORE’:tn OR ‘VIRATOP’:tn OR  ‘VIROLEX’:tn OR ‘VIRUCID’:tn OR ‘VIRUDERM’:tn OR ‘VIRZIN’:tn OR ‘VORACLOR’:tn OR  ‘WARIVIRON’:tn OR ‘WILKO COLD SORE’:tn OR ‘XERCLEAR’:tn OR ‘XOROX AUGENSALBE’:tn OR  ‘ZIDOVIMM’:tn OR ‘ZIVAXLABIALE’:tn OR ‘ZOV’:tn OR ‘ZOVICREM LABIAL’:tn OR ‘ZOVIDUO’:tn OR  ‘ZOVILABIAL’:tn OR ‘ZOVIR’:tn OR ‘ZOVIRAX’:tn OR ‘ZUVOGEN’:tn OR ‘ACIC’:tn OR ‘ACICLO’:tn OR  ‘ACICLOBENE’:tn OR ‘ACICLOVIN’:tn OR ‘ACIROVEC’:tn OR ‘ACIVIR’:tn OR ‘ACLOVIR’:tn OR  ‘ACTIDAS’:tn OR ‘ACTIOS’:tn OR ‘ACTIVIR’:tn OR ‘ACYCLO -V’:tn OR ‘ACYCRIL’:tn OR ‘AKLOVIR’:tn OR  ‘ALCON’:tn OR ‘ACYCLOVIR’:tn OR ‘ASTRIC’:tn OR ‘AVIRAL’:tn OR ‘CICLOFERON’:tn OR  ‘CYCLOVIRAN’:tn OR ‘DAEWON ACYCLOVIR’:tn OR ‘DANOVIR’:tn OR ‘EBASTEL’:tn OR ‘HERPESIL’:tn  OR ‘HERPESIN’:tn OR ‘HEVIRAN’:tn OR ‘LOVIR’:tn OR ‘MEDOVIR’:tn OR ‘REXAN’:tn OR ‘SANAVIR’:tn  OR ‘SUPRAVIRAN’:tn OR ‘TOMILL’:tn OR ‘VACRAX’:tn OR ‘VERCUSRON’:tn OR ‘VICCLOX’:tn OR  ‘VILERM’:tn OR ‘VIROLEX’:tn OR ‘VIROMED’:tn OR ‘VIROSIL’:tn OR ‘VIRUHEXAL’:tn OR ‘VIVIR’:tn OR  ‘VIZOCROSS’:tn OR ‘VYROHEXAL’:tn OR ‘XERESE’:tn OR ‘ZOBISTAT’:tn OR ‘ZORAXIN’:tn OR  ‘ZOSTIN’:tn OR ‘ZOVIR’:tn OR ‘ZOVIRAX’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   25. Azithromycin   ('AZITHROMYCIN' /exp OR 'AZITHROMYCIN' OR 'AZITROMICINA' /exp OR 'AZITROMICINA' OR  'AZITROMYCIN' OR 'AZITROMYCÍN' OR 'AZYTROMYCYN' OR 'AZITROMYCINE' OR 'AZITROMICĪNS' OR  'AZITROMICINAS' OR 'AZITHROMYCINUM' OR 'AZITROMICIN' /exp OR 'AZITROMICIN' OR  'AZITHROMYCINE' OR 'ASITROMÜTSIIN' OR '3Z' :tn OR 'ALZIRAX' :tn OR 'ARATRO' :tn OR 'AZACID' :tn  OR 'AZATRIL' :tn OR 'AZEPTIN' :tn OR 'AZIBACTRON' :tn OR 'AZIBIOM' :tn OR 'AZIBIOT' :tn OR  'AZIFARM' :tn OR 'AZIGEN' :tn OR 'AZIMEPHA' :tn OR 'AZIPROME' :tn OR 'AZIROX' :tn OR 'AZIRUTEC' :tn  OR 'AZITHRIN' :tn OR 'AZITHROBETA' :tn OR 'AZITHROMED' :tn OR 'AZITREDIL' :tn OR 'AZITRIM' :tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 71/368   'AZITRIN' :tn OR 'AZITRIX' :tn OR 'AZITROERRE' :tn OR 'AZITROLEK' :tn OR 'AZITROLID' :tn OR  'AZITROMICINĂ' :tn OR 'AZITROMIZINA' :tn OR 'AZITROX Z' :tn OR 'AZIVIRUS' :tn OR 'AZIWILL' :tn OR  'AZIX' :tn OR 'AZROMAX' :tn OR 'AZYCYNA' :tn OR 'AZYDROP' :tn OR 'AZYTACT' :tn OR 'AZYTAN' :tn OR  'BACTRAZOL' :tn OR 'BATIF' :tn OR 'BAZYT' :tn OR 'BEZANIN' :tn OR 'BINOZYT' :tn OR 'CINETRIN' :tn OR  'CLAMELLE' :tn OR 'GOLDAMYCIN' :tn OR 'GRAMOKIL' :tn OR 'MACROMAX' :tn OR 'MACROZIT' :tn OR  'MAKROMICIN' :tn OR 'NEMEZID' :tn OR 'NEOFARMIZ' :tn OR 'NOBAXIN' :tn OR 'NOVOZITHRON' :tn OR  'ORANEX' :tn OR 'ORDIPHA' :tn OR 'PORTEX' :tn OR 'RAZIMAX' :tn OR 'REZAN' :tn OR 'RIBOTREX' :tn OR  'THORAXX' :tn OR 'TORASEPTOL' :tn OR 'TROZOCINA' :tn OR 'ULTREON' :tn OR 'ZEDBAC' :tn OR  'ZENTAVION' :tn OR 'ZETAMAC' :tn OR 'ZIGILEX' :tn OR 'ZINFECT' :tn OR 'ZITHRO -DUE':tn OR  'ZITHROBEST' :tn OR 'ZITHROTEL' :tn OR 'ZITHROXYN' :tn OR 'ZITINN' :tn OR 'ZITRAVAL' :tn OR  'ZITROBIOTIC' :tn OR 'ZITROCIN' :tn OR 'ZITROGRAM' :tn OR 'ZITROZINA' :tn OR 'ASTRO' :tn OR  'AZADOSE' :tn OR 'AZASITE' :tn OR 'AZEE' :tn OR 'AZENIL' :tn OR 'AZI' :tn OR 'AZIMAX' :tn OR  'AZIMYCIN' :tn OR 'AZITHRAL' :tn OR 'AZITHRO' :tn OR 'AZITROCIN' :tn OR 'AZITROHEXAL' :tn OR  'AZITROMAX' :tn OR 'AZITROX' :tn OR 'AZIWOK' :tn OR 'AZYTER' :tn OR 'AZ İTRO':tn OR 'CLINDAL' :tn OR  'FLUMAX' :tn OR 'GOXIL' :tn OR 'HEMOMYCIN' :tn OR 'KOPTIN' :tn OR 'SUMAMED' :tn OR 'ZEDD' :tn OR  'ZETAMAX' :tn OR 'ZETO' :tn OR 'ZITHROMAC' :tn OR 'ZITHROMAX' :tn OR 'ZITRAX' :tn OR 'ZITROLID' :tn  OR 'ZITROMAX' :tn OR 'ZMAX ':tn) AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   26. Levofloxacin   ‘LEVOFLOXACIN’ OR ‘OFLOXACIN S -( - )-FORM’ OR ‘S -(-)-OFLOXACIN’ OR ‘LEVOFLOXACÍN’ OR  ‘LEVOFLOXACINĂ’ OR ‘LEVOFLOXACINA’ OR ‘LEWOFLOKSACYNA’ OR ‘LEVOFLOXACINUM’ OR  ‘LÉVOFLOXACINE’ OR ‘LEVOFLOKSATSIINI’ OR ‘AGILEV’:tn OR ‘ALLGRAM’:tn OR ‘ALVAND’:tn OR  ‘AMESOL’:tn OR ‘ARANDA’:tn OR ‘ASEY’:tn OR ‘AVATAC’:tn OR ‘BACITAL’:tn OR ‘BATIFLOX’:tn OR  ‘CENOMAR’:tn OR ‘EPIFLOXIN’:tn OR ‘EVOLOX’:tn OR ‘EVOXIL’:tn OR ‘FAIRLIM’:tn OR ‘FAROS’:tn OR  ‘FINDATUR’:tn OR ‘FLAXIDEL’:tn OR ‘FLERADAY’:tn OR ‘FLEXID’:tn OR ‘FLOXASYNT’:tn OR  ‘FLOXATOR’:tn OR ‘FOVEX’:tn OR ‘GRAY’:tn OR ‘IPSONEG’:tn OR ‘KLEKTICA’:tn OR ‘L -OPTIC’:tn OR  ‘LE-VOF’:tn OR ‘LEFLOKIN’:tn OR ‘LEMAXIL’:tn OR ‘LETRINA’:tn OR ‘LEVALOX’:tn OR ‘LEVAM’:tn OR  ‘LEVAXELA’:tn OR ‘LEVITIS’:tn OR ‘LEVNIBIOT’:tn OR ‘LEVOBAT’:tn OR ‘LEVODROP’:tn OR  ‘LEVOFLOKSACIN’:tn OR ‘LEVOFLOKSASIINI’:tn OR ‘LEVOFLOX’:tn OR ‘LEVOFLOXACIN/COOPER’:tn OR  ‘LEVOFLOXACINE’:tn OR ‘LEVOFLOXACIONO’:tn OR ‘LEVOLACIN’:tn OR ‘LEVOPROLIN’:tn OR ‘LEVOR’:tn  OR ‘LEVOTOR’:tn OR ‘LEVOXA’:tn OR ‘LEVOXACIN’:tn OR ‘LEVOXIGRAM’:tn OR ‘LEXACIN’:tn OR  ‘LEXAVON’:tn OR ‘OFTAQUIX’:tn OR ‘OFTAQUIX SINE’:tn OR ‘OFTAQUIX’:tn OR ‘OROFLOCINA’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 72/368   ‘PRIXAR’:tn OR ‘PRIXOTER’:tn OR ‘QUINSAIR’:tn OR ‘REFAZ’:tn OR ‘REFRAIN’:tn OR ‘SAVULIN’:tn OR  ‘SELTRIX’:tn OR ‘SINEFLOX’:tn OR ‘SUMMAFLOX’:tn OR ‘TALERIN’:tn OR ‘TAVAGER’:tn OR  ‘TAVANIC’:tn OR ‘TRISSIL’:tn OR ‘TULEV’:tn OR ‘VELYXA’:tn OR ‘XYVELAM’:tn OR ‘ZOCLIX’:tn OR  ‘ARANDA’:tn OR ‘BREDELIN’:tn OR ‘CRAVIT’:tn OR ‘CRAVOX’:tn OR ‘ELEQUINE’:tn OR ‘FLEXID’:tn OR  ‘FLOXEL’:tn OR ‘FLUONING’:tn OR ‘GLEVO’:tn OR ‘IQUIX’:tn OR ‘LEFLOCIN’:tn OR ‘LEVAQUIN’:tn OR  ‘LEVO’:tn OR ‘LEVOBACT’:tn OR ‘LEVOCIN’:tn OR ‘LEVOFLOXACINE’:tn OR ‘LEVOFLOXACINO’:tn OR  ‘LEVOLOX’:tn OR ‘LEVOMAX’:tn OR ‘LEVONAT’:tn OR ‘LEVOX’:tn OR ‘LEVOXACIN’:tn OR ‘LEVOXAL’:tn  OR ‘LEVOXIN’:tn OR ‘MP -376’:tn OR ‘OFTAQUIX’:tn OR ‘QUIXIN’:tn OR ‘TAMIRAM’:tn OR ‘TAVANIC’:tn  OR ‘TAVANIK’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR  'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   27. Finasteride   ‘FINASTERIDE’ OR ‘FINASTERIDA’ OR ‘FINASTERID’ OR ‘FINASTERIDU’ OR ‘FINASTERIDĂ’ OR  ‘FINASTERYD’ OR ‘FINASTERĪDS’ OR ‘FINASTERIDAS’ OR ‘FINASTERIDUM’ OR ‘FÍNASTERÍÐ’ OR  ‘FINASZTERID’ OR ‘FINASTÉRIDE’ OR ‘FINASTERIDI’ OR ‘FINASTERIID’ OR ‘AINDEEM’:tn OR  ‘ALOCARE’:tn OR ‘ALSTERIDE’:tn OR ‘ANDROFIN’:tn OR ‘ANDROSTATIN’:tn OR ‘ANDROSTER’:tn OR  ‘ANTIPROST’:tn OR ‘FINA’:tn OR ‘FINAS’:tn OR ‘ARAHORMO’:tn OR ‘ASTERID’:tn OR ‘AVIELID’:tn OR  ‘CAREFINAST’:tn OR ‘CELGANOL’:tn OR ‘CHIBRO -PROSCAR’:tn OR ‘ENYDE’:tn OR ‘FILASEL’:tn OR  ‘FINACAPIL’:tn OR ‘FINADURA’:tn OR ‘FINAGEN’:tn OR ‘FINAHAIR’:tn OR ‘FINAJELF’:tn OR  ‘FINAMED’:tn OR ‘FINAMEF’:tn OR ‘FINANORM’:tn OR ‘FINAPIL’:tn OR ‘FINAPROST’:tn OR ‘FINAR’:tn  OR ‘FINARAN’:tn OR ‘FINARD’:tn OR ‘FINAREM’:tn OR ‘FINARIDE’:tn OR ‘FINARISTO’:tn OR  ‘FINASCAR’:tn OR ‘FINASET’:tn OR ‘FINASTAD’:tn OR ‘FINASTER’:tn OR ‘FINASTID’:tn OR  ‘FINASTIR’:tn OR ‘FINASTÉRIDE’:tn OR ‘FINAZIL’:tn OR ‘FINCAR’:tn OR ‘FINEMENTIN’:tn OR  ‘FINESCAR’:tn OR ‘FINESTAR’:tn OR ‘FINEX’:tn OR ‘FINHAIR’:tn OR ‘FINIOL’:tn OR ‘FINOCAR’:tn OR  ‘FINOX’:tn OR ‘FINPROS’:tn OR ‘FINSTER’:tn OR ‘FINURAL’:tn OR ‘FINXTA’:tn OR ‘FINÓL’:tn OR  ‘FISTERID’:tn OR ‘FOLIANS’:tn OR ‘FONSALIS’:tn OR ‘FORAVATE’:tn OR ‘FÜR ERWACHSENE  MÄNNER’:tn OR ‘GEFIN’:tn OR ‘GEFINA’:tn OR ‘GENAPROST’:tn OR ‘GLOPISINE’:tn OR ‘GROWFIN’:tn  OR ‘HYPLAFIN’:tn OR ‘LAMBDAXEL’:tn OR ‘LIFIN’:tn OR ‘MAXPIL’:tn OR ‘MOSTRAFIN’:tn OR ‘NEZYR’:tn  OR ‘NIKITID’:tn OR ‘NORMOMALE’:tn OR ‘ORMICTON’:tn OR ‘PENESTER’:tn OR ‘PILUS’:tn OR  ‘PROFAL’:tn OR ‘PROFIN’:tn OR ‘PROFINOSA’:tn OR ‘PROHYPE’:tn OR ‘PROPECIA’:tn OR ‘PROPLASIA’:tn  OR ‘PROSCAR’:tn OR ‘PROSMIN’:tn OR ‘PROSTAFIN’:tn OR ‘PROSTARINOL’:tn OR ‘PROSTERID’:tn OR  ‘PROSTIDE’:tn OR ‘REDUPROS’:tn OR ‘RIDESTIN’:tn OR ‘SITAS’:tn OR ‘STECUR’:tn OR  ‘SYMASTERIDE’:tn OR ‘TAREDOX’:tn OR ‘TERIP’:tn OR ‘ULGAFEN’:tn OR ‘URONEZYR’:tn OR  ‘ZASTERID’:tn OR ‘FINACAPIL’:tn OR ‘FINALOP’:tn OR ‘FINASTA’:tn OR ‘FINASTIL’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 73/368   ‘FINNACAR’:tn OR ‘PENESTER’:tn OR ‘PMS -FINASTERIDE’:tn OR ‘PROFIDOX’:tn OR ‘PROPECIA’:tn OR  ‘PROSCAR’:tn OR ‘PROSTIDE’:tn OR ‘RADICUT’:tn OR ‘FINASTERIDE’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   28. Alendronic acid   ‘ALENDRONIC ACID’ OR ‘ALENDRONATE’ OR ‘ALENDRONAT’ OR ‘KYSELINA ALENDRÓNOVÁ’ OR ‘ACID  ALENDRONIC’ OR ‘ÁCIDO ALENDRÓNICO’ OR ‘KWAS ALENDRONOWY’ OR ‘ALENDRONSYRE’ OR  ‘ALENDRONINEZUUR’ OR ‘ACIDUM ALENDRONICUM’ OR ‘ALENDRONO RŪGŠTIS’ OR ‘ACIDUM  ALENDRONICUM’ OR ‘ACIDO ALENDRONICO’ OR ‘ALENDRÓNSÝRU’ OR ‘ALENDRONSAV’ OR  ‘ALENDRONATNA KISELINA’ OR ‘ACIDE ALENDRONIQUE’ OR ‘ALENDRONIHAPPO’ OR  ‘ALENDROONHAPE’ OR ‘ÁCIDO ALENDRÓNICO’ OR ‘ALENDRONSÄURE’ OR ‘ALENDRONSYRE’ OR  ‘ACIDUM ALENDRONICUM’ OR ‘ACIDO ALENDRONICO’ OR ‘ACIDO ALENDRÓNICO’ OR ‘ADELAN  SEMANAL’:tn OR ‘ADIVAS’:tn OR ‘ADRONAT’:tn OR ‘ADRONIK’:tn OR ‘ADROVANCE’:tn OR ‘ALDRON’:tn  OR ‘ALEDOX’:tn OR ‘ALEDROLET’:tn OR ‘ALENAT’:tn OR ‘ALENATO’:tn OR ‘ALENAX’:tn OR ‘ALENCA  D3’:tn OR ‘ALENDIS’:tn OR ‘ALENDOR’:tn OR ‘ALENDRAN’:tn OR ‘ALENDRIS EINMAL WÖCHENTLICH’:tn  OR ‘ALENDRO -Q’:tn OR ‘ALENDROARROW’:tn OR ‘ALENDROFARM’:tn OR ‘ALENDROGEN’:tn OR  ‘ALENDROKIT’:tn OR ‘ALENDROMAX’:tn OR ‘ALENDROMED’:tn OR ‘ALENDROMONO’:tn OR  ‘ALENDRON’:tn OR ‘ALENDRON BETA’:tn OR ‘ALENDRONAAT + CALCIUM/VITAMINE D’:tn OR  ‘ALENDRONAT’:tn OR ‘ALENDRONAT VECKO’:tn OR ‘ALENDRONATE+CHOLECALCIFEROL’:tn OR  ‘ALENDRONATE/COLECALCIFEROL’:tn OR ‘ALENDRONATO’:tn OR ‘ALENDRONATUM’:tn OR  ‘ALENDRONAX’:tn OR ‘ALENDRONIC ACID’:tn OR ‘ALENDRONIC ACID/ VITAMIN D3’:tn OR  ‘ALENDRONIC ACID/COLECALCIFEROL’:tn OR ‘ALENDRONINEZUUR’:tn OR  ‘ALENDRONINEZUUR/CHOLECALCIFEROL’:tn OR ‘ALENDRONSTAD EINMAL WÖCHENTLICH’:tn OR  ‘ALENDRONSÄURE’:tn OR ‘ALENDRONSÄURE’:tn OR ‘ALENDRONSÄURE/COLECALCIFEROL’:tn OR  ‘ALENDROPOL VECKOTABLETT’:tn OR ‘ALENDROS’:tn OR ‘ALENDROSSA’:tn OR ‘ALENDROSTAD’:tn OR  ‘ALENDROSTEO’:tn OR ‘ALENIC’:tn OR ‘ALENOTOP’:tn OR ‘ALENWIN’:tn OR ‘ALEOSTITO’:tn OR  ‘AMPINE’:tn OR ‘ARTHROPLUS’:tn OR ‘AURODREN’:tn OR ‘BEENOS’:tn OR ‘BIFOAL SEMANAL’:tn OR  ‘BIFOSAL’:tn OR ‘BINOSTO’:tn OR ‘BINOSTO’:tn OR ‘BONASOL’:tn OR ‘BONE -AID’:tn OR  ‘BONENDRO’:tn OR ‘CALCISEDRON -D’:tn OR ‘CALDRONATE’:tn OR ‘DA -BONE’:tn OR ‘DARGOL’:tn OR  ‘DEDARIN VECKOTABLETT’:tn OR ‘DELFOZA’:tn OR ‘DEPAREX’:tn OR ‘DIFONATE’:tn OR ‘DORYX’:tn OR  ‘DRALENOS’:tn OR ‘DRONAL’:tn OR ‘EN -POR’:tn OR ‘ENIMON’:tn OR ‘EPOLAR’:tn OR ‘FARMEMAX’:tn  OR ‘FLADOR’:tn OR ‘FOROSA’:tn OR ‘FORTIMAX’:tn OR ‘FOSALEN’:tn OR ‘FOSAMAX’:tn OR  ‘FOSAVANCE’:tn OR ‘FOSAZOM’:tn OR ‘FOSTEOFOS’:tn OR ‘FOSTEPOR’:tn OR ‘FOSTOLIN’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 74/368   ‘GENALEN’:tn OR ‘GENDARIN’:tn OR ‘GENDRON’:tn OR ‘GLAMOR’:tn OR ‘GYCALUX’:tn OR ‘JAMAX -S’:tn  OR ‘KENDARIN’:tn OR ‘LEDRONIN’:tn OR ‘LEFOSAN SEMANAL’:tn OR ‘LENDRATE’:tn OR ‘LINADAX’:tn  OR ‘LOZOSTUN’:tn OR ‘MASSIDRON’:tn OR ‘MEDARIN’:tn OR ‘MELDOZ’:tn OR ‘NATRIJEV  ALENDRONAT’:tn OR ‘NEADRALE’:tn OR ‘NOFRATTIL’:tn OR ‘OSASTON’:tn OR ‘OSTACID’:tn OR  ‘OSTADIL’:tn OR ‘OSTEMAX’:tn OR ‘OSTENIL’:tn OR ‘OSTENIL’:tn OR ‘OSTEOMEL’:tn OR  ‘OSTEONAT’:tn OR ‘OSTEONORM’:tn OR ‘OSTEUM’:tn OR ‘OSTOLEK’:tn OR ‘POLERIXEN VECKO’:tn OR  ‘POROCALM’:tn OR ‘PORODRON’:tn OR ‘REALEN’:tn OR ‘RIDON’:tn OR ‘ROMAX’:tn OR ‘SEDRON’:tn OR  ‘SEMANDROL’:tn OR ‘SOLUDRONATE’:tn OR ‘SOLUFARMA’:tn OR ‘STEOVESS’:tn OR ‘TEBONEVA’:tn OR  ‘BON’:tn OR ‘BONE’:tn OR ‘NAT’:tn OR ‘NATE’:tn OR ‘TRABECAN’:tn OR ‘UTERITRIN’:tn OR ‘VALORA’:tn  OR ‘VANTAVO’:tn OR ‘ZAKODRONATE’:tn OR ‘ZULGAR’:tn OR ‘ÁCIDO ALENDRÓNICO’:tn OR ‘ÁCIDO  ALENDRÓNICO+COLECALCIFEROL’:tn OR ‘ÁCIDO ALENDRÓNICO/COLECALCIFEROL’:tn OR  ‘ADRONAT’:tn OR ‘ADROVANCE’:tn OR ‘ALENDIL’:tn OR ‘ALENDIL CÁLCIO D’:tn OR ‘ALENDOR’:tn OR  ‘ALENDRO’:tn OR ‘ALENDROMAX’:tn OR ‘ALENDROMED’:tn OR ‘ALENDRON’:tn OR ‘ALENDRON’:tn OR  ‘ALENDRONAT’:tn OR ‘ALENDRONATE’:tn OR ‘ALENDRONIC ACID’:tn OR ‘ALENDRONINEZUUR’:tn OR  ‘ALENDROS’:tn OR ‘ALENDRONATE’:tn OR ‘BONAGRAN’:tn OR ‘BONALEN’:tn OR ‘BONALON’:tn OR ‘CO  ALENDRONATE’:tn OR ‘DOM -ALENDRONATE’:tn OR ‘DORYX’:tn OR ‘DRONALEN’:tn OR ‘ENDRONAX’:tn  OR ‘ENDROSTAN’:tn OR ‘FOROSA’:tn OR ‘FOSALAN’:tn OR ‘FOSAMAC’:tn OR ‘FOSAMAX’:tn OR  ‘FOSAVANCE’:tn OR ‘MINUSORB’:tn OR ‘OSTEMAX’:tn OR ‘OSTENIL’:tn OR ‘OSTEOBON’:tn OR  ‘OSTEOFAR’:tn OR ‘OSTEOFORM’:tn OR ‘OSTEOMAX’:tn OR ‘RATIO ALENDRONATE’:tn OR ‘TEIROC’:tn  OR ‘-ALENDRONATE’:tn OR ‘NATE’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   29. Valsartan   ‘VALSARTAN’ OR ‘WALSARTAN’ OR ‘VALSARTĀNS’ OR ‘VALSARTANAS’ OR ‘VALSARTANO’ OR  ‘VALSARTANUM’ OR ‘VALZARTÁN’ OR ‘VALSARTAANI’ OR ‘VALSARTAAN’ OR ‘VALSARTAANI’ OR  ‘VALSARTÁN’ OR ‘ALSARTIR’:tn OR ‘VALSART’:tn OR ‘VALSARTAN’:tn OR ‘ARALTER’:tn OR  ‘ARBIGEN’:tn OR ‘AVALSAN’:tn OR ‘AVASART’:tn OR ‘AVASSAN’:tn OR ‘BESPRES’:tn OR ‘BIORAX’:tn  OR ‘CO -VALSARTAN’:tn OR ‘CORDINATE’:tn OR ‘CUENCA’:tn OR ‘DALZAD’:tn OR ‘DESART’:tn OR  ‘DIOSARTAN’:tn OR ‘DIOVAN’:tn OR ‘DIOVANE’:tn OR ‘DIOVÁN’:tn OR ‘DOCARTAN’:tn OR  ‘GRECOVAR’:tn OR ‘IDELTAN’:tn OR ‘IVISART’:tn OR ‘KERVAL’:tn OR ‘KYLOTAN’:tn OR ‘KYLOTAN’:tn  OR ‘LARTAVAN’:tn OR ‘LOKIL’:tn OR ‘MITEN’:tn OR ‘MOLESART’:tn OR ‘NISIS’:tn OR ‘NORTIVAN’:tn OR  ‘PRIMARTAN’:tn OR ‘RAMARTAN’:tn OR ‘REVALSAN’:tn OR ‘RIXIL’:tn OR ‘SALARVANT’:tn OR  ‘SARTAREX’:tn OR ‘SARTOVAL’:tn OR ‘SARTOVAN’:tn OR ‘SUVARTAR’:tn OR ‘TAREG’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 75/368   ‘TENSART’:tn OR ‘TROVAL’:tn OR ‘VACLOR’:tn OR ‘VAGRECOR’:tn OR ‘VAL’:tn OR ‘VALHELEN’:tn OR  ‘VALKIR’:tn OR ‘VALNORM’:tn OR ‘VALPERIL’:tn OR ‘VALPEROL’:tn OR ‘VALPRESS’:tn OR  ‘VALPRESSION’:tn OR ‘VALPRESSOL’:tn OR ‘VALPREX’:tn OR ‘VALS’:tn OR ‘VALSABEN’:tn OR  ‘VALSACELL’:tn OR ‘VALSACOR’:tn OR ‘VALSAGAMMA’:tn OR ‘VALSAR’:tn OR ‘VALSAREP’:tn OR  ‘VALSARGAMMA’:tn OR ‘VALSARGEN’:tn OR ‘VALSART’:tn OR ‘VALSARTAN -Q’:tn OR  ‘VALSARTAN/HIDROKLOROTIAZID’:tn OR ‘VALSARTAN/HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE’:tn OR  ‘VALSARTAN/HYDROCHLORTHIAZID’:tn OR ‘VALSARTORE’:tn OR ‘VALSAVIL’:tn OR ‘VALSAX’:tn OR  ‘VALSOCARD’:tn OR ‘VALSOL’:tn OR ‘VALSOTENS’:tn OR ‘VALSTOR’:tn OR ‘VALTAP’:tn OR  ‘VALTASYN’:tn OR ‘VALTSU’:tn OR ‘VALZAP’:tn OR ‘VALZEK’:tn OR ‘VAMADRID’:tn OR ‘VANATEX’:tn OR  ‘VAPRESS’:tn OR ‘VARTISAN’:tn OR ‘VASOPENTOL’:tn OR ‘VATAN’:tn OR ‘VILANTAL’:tn OR  ‘VIVENDAL’:tn OR ‘WALEZA’:tn OR ‘WALSARTAN’:tn OR ‘WALZERA’:tn OR ‘WAROTA’:tn OR  ‘WENZELL’:tn OR ‘ZAKODIAN’:tn OR ‘ZELVARTAN’:tn OR ‘ANGIOII’:tn OR ‘BRATOR’:tn OR  ‘DIOCOMB’:tn OR ‘DIOVAN’:tn OR ‘DIOVANE’:tn OR ‘KALPRESS’:tn OR ‘NISIS’:tn OR ‘PROVAS’:tn OR  ‘TAREG’:tn OR ‘VALATAN’:tn OR ‘VALS’:tn OR ‘VALSACOR’:tn OR ‘VIVENDAL’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   30. Clarithromycin   ‘CLARITHROMYCIN’ OR ‘CLARITHROMYCINE’ OR ‘KLARITROMYCIN’ OR ‘KLARITROMICIN’ OR  ‘CLARITHROMYCINUM’ OR ‘KLARITROMYCÍN’ OR ‘CLARITROMICINĂ’ OR ‘CLARITROMICINA’ OR  ‘KLARYTROMYCYNA’ OR ‘KLARITROMYCIN’ OR ‘CLARITROMYCINE’ OR ‘KLARITROMICĪNS’ OR  ‘KLARITROMICINO’ OR ‘KLARITROMICINAS’ OR ‘KLARITROMICIN’ OR ‘CLARITROMICINA’ OR  ‘CLARITROMYCIN’ OR ‘KLARITROMICIN’ OR ‘CLAIRITROIMÍCÍN’ OR ‘KLARITROMYSIINIÄ’ OR  ‘KLARITROMYSIINI’ OR ‘KLARITROMÜTSIIN’ OR ‘KLARITROMICĪNA’ OR ‘CLARITROMICINA’ OR  ‘BICLAR’:tn OR ‘BREVIL’:tn OR ‘CF’:tn OR ‘CLAMODIN’:tn OR ‘CLAR’:tn OR ‘CLAREM’:tn OR  ‘CLARIBACTRON’:tn OR ‘CLARIE’:tn OR ‘CLARIMEX’:tn OR ‘CLARIMOSAND’:tn OR ‘CLARIPEN’:tn OR  ‘CLARITHOMYCIN’:tn OR ‘CLARITHROBETA’:tn OR ‘CLARITHROCIN’:tn OR ‘CLARITHROMCYIN’:tn OR  ‘CLARITOMICINA’:tn OR ‘CLARITROL’:tn OR ‘CLARITROMICINA’:tn OR ‘CLARIUM’:tn OR ‘CLARMAC’:tn  OR ‘CLAROMYCIN’:tn OR ‘CLAXIRIT’:tn OR ‘CLONOCID’:tn OR ‘CLOROM’:tn OR ‘CLOROM’:tn OR  ‘ELIBEN’:tn OR ‘EZUMYCIN’:tn OR ‘FEBZIN’:tn OR ‘FORTE’:tn OR ‘FROMILID’:tn OR ‘FROMILID’:tn OR  ‘FROMILID ZA OTROKE’:tn OR ‘GEROMYCIN’:tn OR ‘GLARTIN’:tn OR ‘HELICLAR’:tn OR ‘KAPLON’:tn OR  ‘KLABAX’:tn OR ‘KLABAX’:tn OR ‘KLABION’:tn OR ‘KLABION’:tn OR ‘KLACAR’:tn OR ‘KLACID’:tn OR  ‘KLARC’:tn OR ‘KLARETOP’:tn OR ‘KLAREXYL’:tn OR ‘KLARIBROS’:tn OR ‘KLARICID’:tn OR  ‘KLARIFAR’:tn OR ‘KLARIFECT’:tn OR ‘KLARIGEN’:tn OR ‘KLARIGER’:tn OR ‘KLARILID’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 76/368   ‘KLARIMAC’:tn OR ‘KLARMIN’:tn OR ‘KLAROXIN’:tn OR ‘KLATEX’:tn OR ‘KLAZIDEM’:tn OR  ‘KLERIMED’:tn OR ‘KLORENISS’:tn OR ‘KOFRON’:tn OR ‘KRUKLAR’:tn OR ‘LEKOKLAR’:tn OR  ‘LENCOS’:tn OR ‘LYOCLAR’:tn OR ‘MACLADIN’:tn OR ‘MACLAR’:tn OR ‘MAKCIN’:tn OR ‘MAXIGAN’:tn OR  ‘MAXILIN’:tn OR ‘MINATEV’:tn OR ‘MONOCLARIUM’:tn OR ‘MONONAXY’:tn OR ‘MONOZECLAR’:tn OR  ‘MYCIFOR’:tn OR ‘NA’:tn OR ‘NAXY’:tn OR ‘PHARACID’:tn OR ‘PHARICID’:tn OR ‘PRIMOCID’:tn OR  ‘RICLEMED’:tn OR ‘RITHROCLAD’:tn OR ‘RITHROPROL’:tn OR ‘ROCLARIN’:tn OR ‘SORICLAR’:tn OR  ‘TACLAR’:tn OR ‘ CLARITHROMYCIN’:tn OR ‘TROMYPEN’:tn OR ‘VECLAM’:tn OR ‘VIACLAR’:tn OR  ‘WINCLAR’:tn OR ‘XETININ’:tn OR ‘ZACHTE’:tn OR ‘ZECLAR’:tn OR ‘ZECLAREN’:tn OR ‘ABBOTIC’:tn OR  ‘ADEL’:tn OR ‘CLARITHROMYCIN’:tn OR ‘BIAXIN’:tn OR ‘BICLAR’:tn OR ‘BINOCLAR’:tn OR ‘CLARAC’:tn  OR ‘CLARICIN’:tn OR ‘CLARIHEXAL’:tn OR ‘CLARITH’:tn OR ‘CLARITHRO’:tn OR ‘CLARITHROCIN’:tn OR  ‘CLARITROMICINA’:tn OR ‘CLARITROMYCINE’:tn OR ‘CLAROMYCIN’:tn OR ‘CLERON’:tn OR  ‘FROMILID’:tn OR ‘FROMILID’:tn OR ‘KARIN’:tn OR ‘KLABAX’:tn OR ‘KLACID’:tn OR ‘KLACIPED’:tn OR  ‘KLARICID’:tn OR ‘KLARITHRAN’:tn OR ‘LIKMOSS’:tn OR ‘LINTACIN’:tn OR ‘MACLADIN’:tn OR  ‘MAVID’:tn OR ‘MAXIGAN’:tn OR ‘MAXULID’:tn OR ‘MINEBASE’:tn OR ‘MONOZECLAR’:tn OR ‘NAXY’:tn  OR ‘RAN -CLARITHROMYCIN’:tn OR ‘ZECLAR’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   31. Venlafaxine   ‘VENLAFAXINE’ OR ‘VENLAFAXIN’ OR ‘VENLAFAXÍNU’ OR ‘VENLAFAXINĂ’ OR ‘VENLAFAXINA’ OR  ‘WENLAFAKSYNA’ OR ‘VENLAFAKSĪNA’ OR ‘VENLAFAKSĪNS’ OR ‘VENLAFAKSINO’ OR ‘VENLAFAKSINAS’  OR ‘VENLAFAXINUM’ OR ‘VENLAFAXINA’ OR ‘VENLAFAXINT’ OR ‘VENLAFAKSIN’ OR ‘VENLAFAKSIINI’ OR  ‘VENLAFAKSIINI’ OR ‘VENLAFAXINA’ OR ‘VENLAFAXIN’ OR ‘VENLAFAXINUM’ OR ‘ALVENTA’:tn OR  ‘ALVENTA’:tn OR ‘AMPHERO’:tn OR ‘VENLAFAXIN’ OR ‘ARAFAXINA’:tn OR ‘ARGOFAN’:tn OR  ‘ARVIFAX’:tn OR ‘AXYVEN’:tn OR ‘BEXALOV’:tn OR ‘BONILUX’:tn OR ‘DENEGIS’:tn OR ‘DEPANT’:tn OR  ‘DEPEFEX’:tn OR ‘DEPRETAXER’:tn OR ‘DEPREVIX’:tn OR ‘DEPREXOR’:tn OR ‘DESINAX’:tn OR  ‘DISLAVEN’:tn OR ‘DOBUPAL’:tn OR ‘DUOFAXIN’:tn OR ‘EFAXIN’:tn OR ‘EFAXINE’:tn OR ‘EFEVELON’:tn  OR ‘EFEXOR’:tn OR ‘ELIFY’:tn OR ‘ENZUDE’:tn OR ‘FALVEN’:tn OR ‘FAXINEV’:tn OR ‘FAXIPROL’:tn OR  ‘FAXOLET’:tn OR ‘FLAXEN’:tn OR ‘FOBILESS’:tn OR ‘FORAVEN’:tn OR ‘GENEXIN’:tn OR ‘IREVEN’:tn OR  ‘IVRYX’:tn OR ‘IXILANIA’:tn OR ‘JARVIS’:tn OR ‘LAFACTIN’:tn OR ‘LANVEXIN’:tn OR ‘LAROXIN’:tn OR  ‘LINDALEX’:tn OR ‘MCDERMOTT’:tn OR ‘MELOCIN’:tn OR ‘MEMOMAX -S’:tn OR ‘NEFEXYL’:tn OR  ‘NORAFEXINE’:tn OR ‘OLWEXYA’:tn OR ‘ORIVEN’:tn OR ‘OSMO’:tn OR ‘PANOFEN’:tn OR ‘POLITID’:tn  OR ‘PRACET’:tn OR ‘PREFAXINE’:tn OR ‘PRISTIQ’:tn OR ‘RANFAXINE’:tn OR ‘RANFAXIRAN’:tn OR  ‘RODOMEL’:tn OR ‘SEROSMINE’:tn OR ‘SUNVENIZ’:tn OR ‘SYMFAXIN’:tn OR ‘TAVEX’:tn OR ‘TEST     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 77/368   PHAROS’:tn OR ‘TIFAXIN’:tn OR ‘TONPULAR’:tn OR ‘TREVILOR’:tn OR ‘TUBERNAX’:tn OR ‘TUDOR’:tn  OR ‘VANDRAL’:tn OR ‘VANLALUPEN’:tn OR ‘VAXALIN’:tn OR ‘VEDIXAL’:tn OR ‘VEFAMYL’:tn OR  ‘VELAFAX’:tn OR ‘VELAXIN’:tn OR ‘VELEPT’:tn OR ‘VELPINE’:tn OR ‘VEN -FAX’:tn OR ‘VENAXIBENE’:tn  OR ‘VENAXX’:tn OR ‘VENEX’:tn OR ‘VENFALEX’:tn OR ‘VENLA’:tn OR ‘VENLA -Q’:tn OR ‘VENLABAX’:tn  OR ‘VENLABLUE’:tn OR ‘VENLABRAIN’:tn OR ‘VENLADEX’:tn OR ‘VENLADIMA’:tn OR ‘VENLADOZ’:tn OR  ‘VENLAFAB’:tn OR ‘VENLAFAXIN’:tn OR ‘VENLAFAXINA’:tn OR ‘VENLAFAXINE’:tn OR ‘VENLAFAXINĂ’:tn  OR ‘VENLAFEX’:tn OR ‘VENLAGAMMA’:tn OR ‘VENLAKATO’:tn OR ‘VENLALIC’:tn OR ‘VENLAMYL’:tn OR  ‘VENLA’:tn OR ‘VENLANEO’:tn OR ‘VENLAPETE’:tn OR ‘VENLAPINE’:tn OR ‘VENLASAN’:tn OR  ‘VENLASAND’:tn OR ‘VENLASOV’:tn OR ‘VENLATHEN’:tn OR ‘VENLATIF’:tn OR ‘VENLAXIN’:tn OR  ‘VENLAXOR’:tn OR ‘VENLECTINE’:tn OR ‘VENLEXOR’:tn OR ‘VENLIX’:tn OR ‘VENNAXA’:tn OR  ‘VENSIR’:tn OR ‘VENTADEPRESS’:tn OR ‘VENXIN’:tn OR ‘VENZIP’:tn OR ‘VEXARIN’:tn OR ‘VIEPAX’:tn  OR ‘VOXAFEN’:tn OR ‘XADEVIL’:tn OR ‘ZACALEN’:tn OR ‘ZANFEXA’:tn OR ‘ZAREDROP’:tn OR  ‘ZARELIS’:tn OR ‘ZARELIX’:tn OR ‘ALTVEN’:tn OR ‘ALVENTA’:tn OR ‘VENLAFAXINE’:tn OR ‘CO  VENLAFAXINE’:tn OR ‘EFECTIN’:tn OR ‘EFEXOR’:tn OR ‘EFFEXOR’:tn OR ‘ENLAFAX’:tn OR ‘FAXINE’:tn  OR ‘GD -VENLAFAXINE’:tn OR ‘ -VENLAFAXINE’:tn OR ‘NOVO -VENLAFAXINE’:tn OR ‘PMS’:tn OR  ‘PRISTIQ’:tn OR ‘RIVA -VENLAFAXINE’:tn OR ‘ -VENLAFAXINE’:tn OR ‘TREVILOR’:tn OR ‘VELAFAX’:tn OR  ‘VELAXIN’:tn OR ‘VENEGIS’:tn OR ‘VENFORIN’:tn OR ‘VENLAFAXIN’:tn OR ‘VENLAFAXINE’:tn OR  ‘VENLAX’:tn OR ‘VENLAXIN’:tn OR ‘VENLOR’:tn OR ‘VIEPAX’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   32. Cetirizine   ‘CETIRIZINE’ OR ‘CETIRIZINUM’ OR ‘CÉTIRIZINE’ OR ‘CETIRIZINA’ OR ‘ACATARICK ALLERGY’:tn OR  ‘ACETERIN’:tn OR ‘ACTIFED ALLERGIE’:tn OR ‘ACURA’:tn OR ‘ALAIRGIX ALLERGIE’:tn OR  ‘ALERCINA’:tn OR ‘ALERID’:tn OR ‘ALERLISIN’:tn OR ‘ALERMED’:tn OR ‘ALERTON’:tn OR ‘ALERZINA’:tn  OR ‘ALLERGIETABLETTEN CETIRIZINE’:tn OR ‘ALLERGY & HAYFEVER RELIEF’:tn OR ‘ALLERGY AND  HAYFEVER RELIEF’:tn OR ‘ALLERGY RELIEF’:tn OR ‘ALLERSAN’:tn OR ‘ALLERTEC’:tn OR ‘ALLERTEK’:tn  OR ‘ALNOK’:tn OR ‘ALZYR’:tn OR ‘AMERTIL’:tn OR ‘AMERTIL BIO’:tn OR ‘ANALERGIN’:tn OR  ‘BENADAY’:tn OR ‘CELERG’:tn OR ‘CERCHIO’:tn OR ‘CEREX’:tn OR ‘CETALERGIN’:tn OR ‘CETEC  ALLACATM HEALTH ESSENTIALS HAYFEVER AND ALLERGY RELIEF’:tn OR ‘CETERIS’:tn OR ‘CETI  TAD’:tn OR ‘CETIDEX’:tn OR ‘CETIGEN’:tn OR ‘CETIGRAN’:tn OR ‘CETIMAX’:tn OR ‘CETIP’:tn OR ‘CETIR  AKUT’:tn OR ‘CETIRAM’:tn OR ‘CETIRELIEF ALLERGY’:tn OR ‘CETIRGEN’:tn OR ‘CETIRHEXAL’:tn OR  ‘CETIRIDIE’:tn OR ‘CETIRIGAMMA’:tn OR ‘CETIRINAX’:tn OR ‘CETIRISTAD’:tn OR ‘CETIRIVA’:tn OR  ‘CETIRIZIN’:tn OR ‘CETIRIZINDIHYDROCHLORID’:tn OR ‘CETIRIZINE’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 78/368   ‘CETIRIZINEDIHYDROCHLORIDE’:tn OR ‘CETIRIZINEP’:tn OR ‘CETI’:tn OR ‘CETIX’:tn OR ‘CETIXIN’:tn  OR ‘CETRALLERG’:tn OR ‘CETRINE’:tn OR ‘CETRIX’:tn OR ‘CETRIZ’:tn OR ‘CETYRYZYNA EGIS’:tn OR  ‘CIRRUS’:tn OR ‘COULERGIN’:tn OR ‘DERMIZIN’:tn OR ‘DRILL ALLERGIE CETIRIZINE’:tn OR  ‘DUOZINAL’:tn OR ‘FORMISTIN’:tn OR ‘GARDEX’:tn OR ‘GENERIT’:tn OR ‘GENTIRAN’:tn OR  ‘HABITEK’:tn OR ‘HAYFEVER & ALLERGY RELIEF’:tn OR ‘HAYFEVER AND ALLERGY’:tn OR ‘HEINIX’:tn  OR ‘HEPERPOLL MAÇÃ’:tn OR ‘HISTACINA’:tn OR ‘HISTAFREN’:tn OR ‘HISTAPHARM’:tn OR  ‘HISTASIN’:tn OR ‘HISTEASE ALLERGY RELIEF’:tn OR ‘HISTEC’:tn OR ‘HISTEK’:tn OR ‘HISTIMED’:tn OR  ‘HOOIKOORTSTABLETTEN CETIRIZINE DIHCI’:tn OR ‘HOOIKOORTSTABLETTEN CETIRIZINE DIHCL’:tn  OR ‘HUMEX ALLERGIE’:tn OR ‘HUMEX RHINITE ALLERGIQUE’:tn OR ‘HYPERPOLL’:tn OR ‘IDYL  CETIRIZINE DIHCL SDG FARMA’:tn OR ‘ISSIUM’:tn OR ‘LETIZEN’:tn OR ‘LETIZEN S’:tn OR  ‘LEVIORINIL’:tn OR ‘LIVOREACTINE’:tn OR ‘NARISTAR’:tn OR ‘PARLAZIN’:tn OR ‘PIRITEZE ALLERGY’:tn  OR ‘PIRITEZE ALLERGY RELIEF’:tn OR ‘POLLENSHIELD HAYFEVER’:tn OR ‘POLLENSHIELD HAYFEVER  RELIEF’:tn OR ‘PREVALIN ALLERSTOP’:tn OR ‘PRIZITEC COMPRESSE’:tn OR ‘PRIZITEC SOLUZIONE’:tn  OR ‘RAINGEN’:tn OR ‘RATIOALERG’:tn OR ‘RATIOALLERG’:tn OR ‘REACTIN’:tn OR ‘REACTINE’:tn OR  ‘REMEZINE’:tn OR ‘REVICET’:tn OR ‘RHINOSINUTAB’:tn OR ‘RITECAM’:tn OR ‘SOTRIZOL’:tn OR  ‘STAMIDIX’:tn OR ‘STOPCOLD’:tn OR ‘SUSPIRIA’:tn OR ‘TALERT’:tn OR ‘TELARIX’:tn OR ‘TEMELIN’:tn  OR ‘ CETIRIZINE’:tn OR ‘TEZASTIN’:tn OR ‘TICERIN’:tn OR ‘TIRACETIN’:tn OR ‘TIRITEK ALLERGY’:tn  OR ‘TIRIZIN’:tn OR ‘VIALERG’:tn OR ‘VIRLIX’:tn OR ‘VIRLIX PLUS’:tn OR ‘ZAREC’:tn OR ‘ZEPHOLIN’:tn  OR ‘ZIREX’:tn OR ‘ZIRPINE’:tn OR ‘ZIRTEC’:tn OR ‘ZIRTEK’:tn OR ‘ZIRTENE’:tn OR ‘ZODAC’:tn OR  ‘ZYNOR’:tn OR ‘ZYRLEX’:tn OR ‘ZYRTEC’:tn OR ‘ZYRTEC -D’:tn OR ‘ZYRTECSET’:tn OR ‘ΖΙΡΤΈΚ’:tn OR  ‘ALLECET’:tn OR ‘ALLERGY RELIEF’:tn OR ‘ALLERTEC’:tn OR ‘AMERTIL’:tn OR ‘CETIRIZINE’:tn OR  ‘CEREX’:tn OR ‘CETALERG’:tn OR ‘CETALLERG’:tn OR ‘CETECO’:tn OR ‘CETIL’:tn OR ‘CETIRIZIN’:tn OR  ‘CETIRIZINA’:tn OR ‘CETIRIZINE’:tn OR ‘CETRILER’:tn OR ‘CETRIN’:tn OR ‘CETRINE’:tn OR ‘CEZERA’:tn  OR ‘CHILDRENS ZYRTEC ALLERGY’:tn OR ‘CHILDRENS ZYRTEC HIVES RELIEF’:tn OR ‘CIRRUS’:tn OR  ‘HISTAMED’:tn OR ‘LETIZEN’:tn OR ‘PARLAZIN’:tn OR ‘PMS -CETIRIZINE’:tn OR ‘RAZENE’:tn OR  ‘REACTIN’:tn OR ‘REACTINE’:tn OR ‘REVICET’:tn OR ‘TRIOFAN ALLERGIE’:tn OR ‘VIRLIX’:tn OR ‘WAL  ZYR’:tn OR ‘ZIRPINE’:tn OR ‘ZIRTEC’:tn OR ‘ZIRTEK’:tn OR ‘ZODAC’:tn OR ‘ZYRLEX’:tn OR ‘ZYRTEC’:tn  OR ‘ZYRTEC -D’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR  'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   33. Sertraline   ‘SERTRALINE’ OR ‘SERTRALIN’ OR ‘SERTRALÍNU’ OR ‘SERTRALINA’ OR ‘SERTRALINO’ OR  ‘SERTRALINUM’ OR ‘SERTRALIINI’ OR ‘ADJUVIN’:tn OR ‘AINIM’:tn OR ‘ALTISBEN’:tn OR ‘SERTRAL’:tn  OR ‘APOSERTA’:tn OR ‘AREMIS’:tn OR ‘ASENTRA’:tn OR ‘ASERIN’:tn OR ‘ASERTA’:tn OR ‘ASERTIN’:tn     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 79/368   OR ‘BELLSERT’:tn OR ‘BESITRAN’:tn OR ‘CERTORUN’:tn OR ‘DEPREGER’:tn OR ‘ENIDAP’:tn OR  ‘ENORE’:tn OR ‘EPILYD’:tn OR ‘GLADEM’:tn OR ‘HALEA’:tn OR ‘INIVON’:tn OR ‘LUSERT’:tn OR  ‘LUSTRAL’:tn OR ‘LUXETA’:tn OR ‘MIRAVIL’:tn OR ‘NEUROSEDINE’:tn OR ‘ORALIN’:tn OR  ‘RESTALINE’:tn OR ‘SERETRAL’:tn OR ‘SERIMEL’:tn OR ‘SERLAIN’:tn OR ‘SERLAN’:tn OR ‘SERLIFT’:tn  OR ‘SERLIN’:tn OR ‘SERLINAN’:tn OR ‘SEROLUX’:tn OR ‘SEROMEG’:tn OR ‘SEROTYP’:tn OR  ‘SERTABAL’:tn OR ‘SERTADEPI’:tn OR ‘SERTAGEN’:tn OR ‘SERTIVAN’:tn OR ‘SERTRA TAD’:tn OR  ‘SERTRA -Q’:tn OR ‘SERTRAL’:tn OR ‘SERTRALET’:tn OR ‘SERTRALIN’:tn OR ‘SERTRALINA’:tn OR  ‘SERTRALINE’:tn OR ‘SERTRALON’:tn OR ‘SERTRAN’:tn OR ‘SERTRANAT’:tn OR ‘SERTRANORM’:tn OR  ‘SERTRIX’:tn OR ‘SERTRONE’:tn OR ‘SERUNATO’:tn OR ‘SETALOFT’:tn OR ‘SOMIDAL’:tn OR  ‘SONALIA’:tn OR ‘STIMULOTON’:tn OR ‘TATIG’:tn OR ‘TRALIN’:tn OR ‘TRALINAN’:tn OR ‘TRALISEN’:tn  OR ‘TRALIX’:tn OR ‘TRENEL’:tn OR ‘TRESLEEN’:tn OR ‘XIMPROVE’:tn OR ‘ZEELINAX’:tn OR ‘ZOLOFT’:tn  OR ‘ZOLOTRIN’:tn OR ‘ZORTAL’:tn OR ‘ZOTRAL’:tn OR ‘ACORTRAL’:tn OR ‘ALTRULINE’:tn OR  ‘SERTRALINE’:tn OR ‘AREMIS’:tn OR ‘ASENTRA’:tn OR ‘ASSERT’:tn OR ‘ATENIX’:tn OR ‘BESITRAN’:tn  OR ‘CONCORZ’:tn OR ‘DIELOFT’:tn OR ‘ELEVA’:tn OR ‘GLADEM’:tn OR ‘JZOLOFT’:tn OR ‘LUSTRAL’:tn  OR ‘PMS -SERTRALINE’:tn OR ‘RATIO -SERTRALINE’:tn OR ‘RESTERAL’:tn OR ‘SERALIN’:tn OR  ‘SERDEP’:tn OR ‘SERENATA’:tn OR ‘SERLAIN’:tn OR ‘SERLIFE’:tn OR ‘SERLIFT’:tn OR ‘SEROLUX’:tn OR  ‘SERTEX’:tn OR ‘SERTRA’:tn OR ‘SERTRAGEN’:tn OR ‘SERTRAL’:tn OR ‘SERTRALIN’:tn OR  ‘SERTRALINA’:tn OR ‘SERTRALINE’:tn OR ‘SETRONA’:tn OR ‘SOLOTIK’:tn OR ‘STIMULOTON’:tn OR  ‘TOLREST’:tn OR ‘XYDEP’:tn OR ‘ZOLOFT’:tn OR ‘ZOTRAL’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   34. Ramipril   ‘RAMIPRIL’ OR ‘RAMIPRILUM’ OR ‘RAMIPRYL’ OR ‘RAMIPRILS’ OR ‘RAMIPRILIS’ OR ‘RAMIPRILUM’ OR  ‘RAIMIPRÉIL’ OR ‘RAMIPRIILI’ OR ‘RAMIPRIIL’ OR ‘ACAPRIL’:tn OR ‘ACESIAL’:tn OR ‘ACOVIL’:tn OR  ‘ALARIMED’:tn OR ‘AMPRIGEN’:tn OR ‘AMPRIL’:tn OR ‘AMPRILAN’:tn OR ‘RAMI’:tn OR ‘ARELIX’:tn OR  ‘AXTIL’:tn OR ‘BLOCAR’:tn OR ‘CARASEL’:tn OR ‘CARDACE’:tn OR ‘CARDIFRIEND’:tn OR ‘DELIX’:tn OR  ‘DELMUNO’:tn OR ‘ECLIPSE’:tn OR ‘HARTIL’:tn OR ‘HERZATEC’:tn OR ‘IVIPRIL’:tn OR ‘KRUPIL’:tn OR  ‘LANNAPRIL’:tn OR ‘LASITACE’:tn OR ‘MARIRAM’:tn OR ‘MEDIPRIL’:tn OR ‘MEDORAM’:tn OR  ‘MERAMYL’:tn OR ‘MERTABYL’:tn OR ‘MIRAPEN’:tn OR ‘MIRIL’:tn OR ‘MITRIP’:tn OR ‘NORAPRIL’:tn OR  ‘PIRETANIDE -RAMIPRIL’:tn OR ‘POLAPRIL’:tn OR ‘POLPRIL’:tn OR ‘PRILACE’:tn OR ‘PRILAMIL’:tn OR  ‘PRILEN’:tn OR ‘QUARK’:tn OR ‘RAMACE’:tn OR ‘RAMED’:tn OR ‘RAMI -A’:tn OR ‘RAMIC’:tn OR  ‘RAMICARD’:tn OR ‘RAMICLAIR’:tn OR ‘RAMICOR’:tn OR ‘RAMIGAMMA’:tn OR ‘RAMIHEXAL’:tn OR  ‘RAMIL’:tn OR ‘RAMILICH’:tn OR ‘RAMILO’:tn OR ‘RAMIMED’:tn OR ‘RAMIPRIL + FELODIPINE’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 80/368   ‘RAMIRAN’:tn OR ‘RAMISTAD’:tn OR ‘RAMISTADA’:tn OR ‘RAMISYN’:tn OR ‘RAMITACE’:tn OR  ‘RAMITANID’:tn OR ‘RAMOXAPRIL’:tn OR ‘RAMVE’:tn OR ‘RAMÍL’:tn OR ‘RANACE’:tn OR ‘ROMACE’:tn  OR ‘RYMAPRILAMED’:tn OR ‘TAZKO’:tn OR ‘TENSIRAM’:tn OR ‘TRASILARIMED’:tn OR ‘TRIACOR’:tn OR  ‘TRIALIX’:tn OR ‘TRIAPIN’:tn OR ‘TRIAPIN MITE’:tn OR ‘TRIASYN’:tn OR ‘TRIATEC’:tn OR ‘UNIPRIL’:tn  OR ‘VIVACE’:tn OR ‘ZENRA’:tn OR ‘ALTACE’:tn OR ‘AMPRIL’:tn OR ‘AMPRILAN’:tn OR ‘ANEXIA’:tn OR  ‘RAMIPRIL’:tn OR ‘CARDACE’:tn OR ‘CORPRIL’:tn OR ‘DELIX’:tn OR ‘DELIX PROTECT’:tn OR  ‘DELMUNO’:tn OR ‘ECATOR’:tn OR ‘ECLIPSE’:tn OR ‘HARTIL’:tn OR ‘HYPREN’:tn OR ‘LOSTAPRES’:tn OR  ‘NAPRIX’:tn OR ‘PIRAMIL’:tn OR ‘PRAMACE’:tn OR ‘PRILACE’:tn OR ‘QUARK’:tn OR ‘RAMACE’:tn OR  ‘RAMICARD’:tn OR ‘RAMIPRIL’:tn OR ‘RAMITENS’:tn OR ‘RAMIWIN’:tn OR ‘RAMPIL’:tn OR ‘RAN - RAMIPRIL’:tn OR ‘RATIO -RAMIPRIL’:tn OR ‘ -RAMIPRIL’:tn OR ‘TRI -PLEN’:tn OR ‘TRIACOR’:tn OR  ‘TRIALIX’:tn OR ‘TRIAPIN’:tn OR ‘TRIAPIN MITE’:tn OR ‘TRIASYN’:tn OR ‘TRIATEC’:tn OR ‘TRITACE’:tn  OR ‘TRYZAN’:tn OR ‘UNIMAX’:tn OR ‘UNIPRIL’:tn OR ‘VESDIL’:tn OR ‘VIVACE’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   35. Calcium Carbonate   ‘CALCIUM CARBONATE’ OR ‘CALCIUMCARBONAT’ OR ‘CARBONATO DE CALCIO’ OR ‘CHALK’ OR  ‘CALCIUM CARBONICUM’ OR ‘KALCIUMKARBONAT’ OR ‘KALCIJEV KARBONAT’ OR ‘UHLIČITAN  VÁPENATÝ’ OR ‘CARBONAT DE CALCIU’ OR ‘CARBONATO DE CÁLCIO’ OR ‘WĘGLAN WAPNIA’ OR  ‘WAPNIA WĘGLAN’ OR ‘KALSIUMKARBONAT’ OR ‘CALCIUMCARBONAAT’ OR ‘KALCIJA KARBONĀTS’ OR  ‘KALCIO KARBONATAS’ OR ‘CARBONATO DI CALCIO’ OR ‘KALSÍUMKARBÓNAT’ OR ‘KALCIUM  KARBONÁT’ OR ‘KALCIJEV KARBONAT’ OR ‘CARBONATE DE CALCIUM’ OR ‘CARBONATE CALCIQUE’ OR  ‘KALSIUMKARBONAATTI’ OR ‘KALTSIUMKARBONAAT’ OR ‘CARBONATO CÁLCICO’ OR ‘CARBONATO DE  CALCIO’ OR ‘CARBONATO DE CÁLCIO’ OR ‘CALCIUMCARBONAT’ OR ‘CALCIUMCARBONAT’ OR  ‘UHLIČITAN VÁPENATÝ’ OR ‘AC -CALCIUM VITD3 BT’ OR ‘AC -CALCIVITD3 BT’ OR ‘ACCRETE D3’:tn OR  ‘ACIDEX’:tn OR ‘ACTOKIT’:tn OR ‘ACTONEL COMBI’:tn OR ‘ACTONELCOMBI’:tn OR ‘ACTONORM  POWDER’:tn OR ‘ADALBEN 600MG/400UI COMPRIMIDOS MASTICABLES EFG’:tn OR ‘ADCAL’:tn OR  ‘ALENDRON PLUS CALCIUM D’:tn OR ‘ALENDRONSÄURE PLUS CALCIUM D’:tn OR ‘ALGINATE’:tn OR  ‘ALGINATE/SODIUM BICARBONATE/CALCIUM CARBONATE’:tn OR ‘ALGINATE/SODIUM  BIOCARBONATE/CALCIUM BIOCARBONATE’:tn OR ‘ANUAR’:tn OR ‘BALANCID’:tn OR ‘BISODOL’:tn OR  ‘BONESIL D FLAS’:tn OR ‘CACIT’:tn OR ‘CAD3 FORTE’:tn OR ‘CADELIUS’:tn OR ‘CADTRE’:tn OR ‘CAL -D- VITA’:tn OR ‘CALCEOS’:tn OR ‘CALCI D3’:tn OR ‘CALCI -BRUIS D3’:tn OR ‘CALCIAL D’:tn OR ‘CALCIAPS  D3’:tn OR ‘CALCICARB 700 MG TABLETTA’:tn OR ‘CALCICHEW’:tn OR ‘CALCICOLD3’:tn OR  ‘CALCIDE’:tn OR ‘CALCIDOC’:tn OR ‘CALCIDOSE’:tn OR ‘CALCIFORM’:tn OR ‘CALCIFORTE VITAMINE     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 81/368   D3’:tn OR ‘CALCIGAMMA’:tn OR ‘CALCIGAUROL’:tn OR ‘CALCIGEN D’:tn OR ‘CALCII CARBONICI  MEDICAMENTA’:tn OR ‘CALCII CARBONICI, KALCIOVÉ TABLETY’:tn OR ‘CALCILAC’:tn OR ‘CALCIMED  D3’:tn OR ‘CALCIO D’:tn OR ‘CALCIO/VITAMINA D3’:tn OR ‘CALCIOR’:tn OR ‘CALCIOR -D’:tn OR  ‘CALCIORAL’:tn OR ‘CALCIPOT’:tn OR ‘CALCIPRAT’:tn OR ‘CALCITAB’:tn OR ‘CALCITAB D’:tn OR  ‘CALCIU D3 MASTICABIL’:tn OR ‘CALCIU OSTEO’:tn OR ‘CALCIUM’:tn OR ‘CALCIUM D3’:tn OR  ‘CALCIUM DURA’:tn OR ‘CALCIUM EN VITAMINE D3 ALPEX’:tn OR ‘CALCIUM -D’:tn OR ‘CALCIUM -D3’:tn  OR ‘CALCIUM -DURA VIT D3’:tn OR ‘CALCIUM’:tn OR ‘CALCIUM/CHOLECALCIFEROL ’:tn OR  ‘CALCIUM/VITAMIN D3’:tn OR ‘CALCIUM/VITAMINE ’:tn OR ‘CALCIUMCARBONAT’:tn OR  ‘CALCIUMVITD3’:tn OR ‘CALCIUP D3 FORTE’:tn OR ‘CALCIVIT D’:tn OR ‘CALCIVIT D FORTE’:tn OR  ‘CALCOS VITAMINE D3’:tn OR ‘CALDEFIX’:tn OR ‘CALODIS’:tn OR ‘CALPEROS’:tn OR ‘CALPRIMUM’:tn  OR ‘CALTRATE’:tn OR ‘CALVIDIN’:tn OR ‘CALVIVE -D’:tn OR ‘CAOSINA’:tn OR ‘CARBOCAL’:tn OR  ‘CARBOSINT’:tn OR ‘CC -NEFRO’:tn OR ‘CIMASCAL’:tn OR ‘CIMASCAL D’:tn OR ‘CITROSODINA  ANTIACIDO’:tn OR ‘CORICA COMBI’:tn OR ‘D -CALCIUM’:tn OR ‘D -VITAL’:tn OR ‘DEMILOS’:tn OR  ‘DENSICAL’:tn OR ‘DIAGRAN MINERALE’:tn OR ‘DIGESTIVO ANTONETTO’:tn OR ‘DISNAL’:tn OR  ‘DONICIL’:tn OR ‘DREISACARB’:tn OR ‘ELGYDIUM PATE DENTIFRICE’:tn OR ‘EUROCAL D3’:tn OR  ‘EVACAL D3’:tn OR ‘FEMINON N’:tn OR ‘GALIEVE’:tn OR ‘GASTROPAX’:tn OR ‘GAVISCON’:tn OR  ‘GAVISCONELL’:tn OR ‘GELODROX’:tn OR ‘IDEOS’:tn OR ‘IDEOS UNIDIA’:tn OR ‘IDRACAL’:tn OR ‘J  COLLIS BROWNES TABLETS’:tn OR ‘KALCIDON’:tn OR ‘KALCIJEV KARBONAT’:tn OR ‘KALCIPOS -D’:tn  OR ‘KAOBROL’:tn OR ‘KOMBI -KALZ’:tn OR ‘KONTRACID’:tn OR ‘LACTEOL’:tn OR ‘LUBICAL’:tn OR  ‘LÖSCALCON’:tn OR ‘MAGEN’:tn OR ‘MAGEN PASTILLEN’:tn OR ‘MAGNÉSIE PLUS’:tn OR ‘MARGA’:tn OR  ‘MAXI -KALZ’:tn OR ‘MEGA CALCIUM’:tn OR ‘MEGACALCIUM -D’:tn OR ‘METOCAL’:tn OR  ‘METOCALCIUM’:tn OR ‘MYLICONACID’:tn OR ‘NATECAL’:tn OR ‘NATEMILLE’:tn OR ‘NEUTROLAC’:tn OR  ‘NEUTROSE’:tn OR ‘NEUTROSES’:tn OR ‘OPTINATE PLUS CA & D’:tn OR ‘OROCAL’:tn OR ‘OROTRE’:tn  OR ‘OSSEANS VITAMINE D3’:tn OR ‘OSSOFORTIN PLUS’:tn OR ‘OSSOFORTIN D BRAUSETABLETTEN’:tn  OR ‘OSTEO VITAL’:tn OR ‘OSTEOBISS’:tn OR ‘OSTEOPLUS’:tn OR ‘OSTEOVITAL’:tn OR ‘OSTINE’:tn OR  ‘PEPDUAL’:tn OR ‘PERICAL’:tn OR ‘RECALVIT D’:tn OR ‘RECIKALC -D’:tn OR ‘RECIKALC -D FORTE’:tn OR  ‘RELIVERAN’:tn OR ‘REMEGEL’:tn OR ‘RENNIE’:tn OR ‘REX’:tn OR ‘RILISCAL’:tn OR ‘RISEDRONAAT +  CALCIUM/VITAMINE D COMBIPACK’:tn OR ‘RISEDRONAATNATRIUM 35 MG EN CALCIUM 500 MG’:tn OR  ‘RISEDRONATE SODIUM AND CALCIUM’:tn OR ‘RISEDRONATE SODIUM AND  CALCIUM/CHOLECALCIFEROL’:tn OR ‘RISEDRONATE/CALCIUM ’:tn OR ‘RISMYL COMBI’:tn OR  ‘ROWAROLAN’:tn OR ‘SAMARIN ANTACID MINT’:tn OR ‘SANDOCAL’:tn OR ‘CA -D’:tn OR ‘SECREPAT’:tn  OR ‘SETLERS ANTACID CHEWABLE TABLET SPEARMINT’:tn OR ‘STEOVIT D3’:tn OR ‘STERWIN  ANTACID’:tn OR ‘TAMINOL’:tn OR ‘CARBOVIT’:tn OR ‘THEICAL -D3’:tn OR ‘TITRALAC’:tn OR ‘TONACAL  D3’:tn OR ‘TUMS’:tn OR ‘VERISCAL D’:tn OR ‘VICALVIT’:tn OR ‘VITACALCIN’:tn OR ‘ACIDEX’:tn OR  ‘ACTOKIT’:tn OR ‘ACTONELCOMBI’:tn OR ‘ADCAL’:tn OR ‘ALKA -SELTZER FRUIT CHEWS’:tn OR ‘ALKA - SELTZER HEARTBURN RELIEFCHEWS’:tn OR ‘ANTACID EXTRA STRENGTH’:tn OR ‘BALANCID’:tn OR  ‘BIO-ORGANICS CALCIUM PLUS VITAMIN D3’:tn OR ‘BIOCALCIUM’:tn OR ‘BONECAL’:tn OR ‘CACIT’:tn  OR ‘CAD’:tn OR ‘CAL -600’:tn OR ‘CAL -D’:tn OR ‘CAL -D-VITA’:tn OR ‘CAL -DE’:tn OR ‘CALCI -GRY’:tn OR  ‘CALCI -MIX’:tn OR ‘CALCI -TAB’:tn OR ‘CALCIAPS D3’:tn OR ‘CALCICHEW’:tn OR ‘CALCIDIA’:tn OR  ‘CALCIDON’:tn OR ‘CALCIGRAN’:tn OR ‘CALCIMAGON’:tn OR ‘CALCIMED D3’:tn OR ‘CALCIMORE’:tn OR  ‘CALCIO’:tn OR ‘CALCIO D’:tn OR ‘CALCIORAL’:tn OR ‘CALCIPOT’:tn OR ‘CALCIPRAT’:tn OR  ‘CALCITAB’:tn OR ‘CALCITAB D’:tn OR ‘CALCITRAN D3’:tn OR ‘CALCIUM 600 + D’:tn OR ‘CALCIUM  CARBONATE’:tn OR ‘CALCIUM D’:tn OR ‘CALCIUM D3’:tn OR ‘CALCIUM’:tn OR ‘CALCIUM -D3’:tn OR  ‘CALCIUM’:tn OR ‘CALCIUM/VITAMIN D3’:tn OR ‘CALCIVIT D’:tn OR ‘CALCIVIT D FORTE’:tn OR  ‘CALDE’:tn OR ‘CALPEROS’:tn OR ‘CALS -D3’:tn OR ‘CALSAN’:tn OR ‘CALSOURCE CA’:tn OR ‘CALTAN’:tn  OR ‘CALTRATE’:tn OR ‘CALTREX 1250’:tn OR ‘CALVID’:tn OR ‘CARTARETIN’:tn OR ‘CAVID’:tn OR  ‘CHALKCAP’:tn OR ‘CHOOZ’:tn OR ‘CIMASCAL D FORTE’:tn OR ‘D -VITAL’:tn OR ‘DENSICAL’:tn OR  ‘DICAL’:tn OR ‘DIDROKIT’:tn OR ‘EQUATE ANTACID’:tn OR ‘FIXICAL’:tn OR ‘FORTICAL’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 82/368   ‘GAVISCON’:tn OR ‘GELMAX’:tn OR ‘IDEOS’:tn OR ‘INDIGESTION MIXTURE’:tn OR ‘INDIGESTIVE’:tn  OR ‘KALCIPOS’:tn OR ‘KALCIPOS -D’:tn OR ‘LACTEOL’:tn OR ‘LÖSCALCON’:tn OR ‘MAALOX EXTRA - STRENGTH’:tn OR ‘MACALVIT’:tn OR ‘MAXI -CALC’:tn OR ‘MAXI -KALZ’:tn OR ‘MAXICALC D’:tn OR  ‘MEGA -CALCIUM’:tn OR ‘NATECAL’:tn OR ‘NEO CAL -D’:tn OR ‘NOVALUCOL’:tn OR ‘OPTINATE COMBI’:tn  OR ‘OROCAL’:tn OR ‘OROCAL D3’:tn OR ‘OROCAL VITAMINE D3’:tn OR ‘OS -CAL’:tn OR ‘OSSOTRAT - D’:tn OR ‘OSTELIN’:tn OR ‘OSTEOCAL’:tn OR ‘OSTEOCAL D3’:tn OR ‘OSTEOPLUS’:tn OR ‘OSTEVIT D &  CALCIUM’:tn OR ‘OSTINE’:tn OR ‘OYSTERSHELL CALCIUM’:tn OR ‘PEPCID COMPLETE’:tn OR  ‘PERICAL’:tn OR ‘QUICK -EZE’:tn OR ‘REMEGEL’:tn OR ‘RENNIE’:tn OR ‘ROLAIDS’:tn OR ‘SANDOCAL’:tn  OR ‘CALCIUM FORTE’:tn OR ‘STEOVIT D3’:tn OR ‘TANKARU’:tn OR ‘TITRALAC’:tn OR ‘TUMS’:tn OR  ‘VIACTIV’:tn OR ‘VICALVIT D’:tn OR ‘VITACAL’:tn OR ‘VITACALCIN’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   36. Sildenafil   ‘SILDENAFIL’ OR ‘SYLDENAFIL’ OR ‘SILDENAFILS’ OR ‘SILDENAFILIO’ OR ‘SILDENAFILUM’ OR  ‘SZILDENAFIL’ OR ‘SILDENAFIILI’ OR ‘SILDENAFILO’ OR ‘AMFIDOR’:tn OR ‘AVIXAR’:tn OR ‘AZULSIX’:tn  OR ‘BEAPY’:tn OR ‘BELFIL’:tn OR ‘BLUGRAL’:tn OR ‘CILAFIL’:tn OR ‘DESUAL’:tn OR ‘DINAMICO’:tn OR  ‘DURAVIRIL’:tn OR ‘ECRITEN’:tn OR ‘ENAFILZIL’:tn OR ‘ENTRANIN’:tn OR ‘ERASILTON’:tn OR  ‘ERECTA’:tn OR ‘EREQ’:tn OR ‘FALSIGRA’:tn OR ‘FEXION’:tn OR ‘FILDLATA’:tn OR ‘GALOTAM’:tn OR  ‘GEDENA’:tn OR ‘IDILICO’:tn OR ‘INVENTUM’:tn OR ‘KATORA’:tn OR ‘LANNAGRA’:tn OR ‘LEKAP’:tn OR  ‘LICOSIL’:tn OR ‘MAXIGRA’:tn OR ‘MAXON’:tn OR ‘MEREWIN’:tn OR ‘MODRASIL’:tn OR ‘OLVION’:tn OR  ‘OXIMUM’:tn OR ‘PRELUD’:tn OR ‘PRESCOFIL’:tn OR ‘REVATIO’:tn OR ‘ROSYTONA’:tn OR ‘SIDENA’:tn  OR ‘SIDLENAFIL’:tn OR ‘SILCHEMO’:tn OR ‘SILDA’:tn OR ‘SILDARISTO’:tn OR ‘SILDEAGIL’:tn OR  ‘SILDEGRA’:tn OR ‘SILDEHEXAL’:tn OR ‘SILDEN’:tn OR ‘SILDENAFIL’:tn OR ‘SILDENAMED’:tn OR  ‘SILDENON’:tn OR ‘SILDENOVA’:tn OR ‘SILDEREC’:tn OR ‘SILDREM’:tn OR ‘SILFCHEMIA’:tn OR  ‘SILFELDREM’:tn OR ‘SILKODIL’:tn OR ‘SILNERTON’:tn OR ‘SINEGRA’:tn OR ‘TAXIER’:tn OR  ‘TORNETIS’:tn OR ‘VALEDONIS’:tn OR ‘VEGAMAC’:tn OR ‘VERVENTI’:tn OR ‘VESTIREN’:tn OR  ‘VIAGRA’:tn OR ‘VINER’:tn OR ‘VINER MINT’:tn OR ‘VIZARSIN’:tn OR ‘YEXTOR’:tn OR ‘ZUANDOL’:tn OR  ‘AVIGRA’:tn OR ‘PATREX’:tn OR ‘REVATIO’:tn OR ‘TORNETIS’:tn OR ‘VIAGRA’:tn OR ‘VIMAX’:tn AND  ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti  OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 83/368   'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   37. Ascorbic Acid   ‘ASCORBIC ACID’ OR ‘VITAMIN C’ OR ‘CEVITAMIC ACID’ OR ‘(2R)-2-[(1S) -1,2-DIHYDROXYETHYL] -4,5- DIHYDROXY -FURAN -3-ONE’ OR ‘ASCÓRBICO, ÁCIDO’ OR ‘VITAMINE C’ OR ‘ASKORBIINIHAPPO’ OR  ‘ASKORBINSYRA’ OR ‘ASKORBINSKA KISLINA’ OR ‘KYSELINA ASKORBOVÁ’ OR ‘ACID ASCORBIC’ OR  ‘ÁCIDO ASCÓRBICO’ OR ‘KWAS ASKORBOWY’ OR ‘ASCORBINSYRE’ OR ‘ASKORBINSYRE’ OR  ‘ASCORBINEZUUR’ OR ‘ASKORBĪNSKĀBE’ OR ‘ASKORBO RŪGŠTIS’ OR ‘ACIDUM ASCORBICUM’ OR  ‘ACIDO ASCORBICO’ OR ‘VITAMINA C’ OR ‘ASCORBÍNSÝRA’ OR ‘ASZKORBINSAV’ OR ‘ASKORBATNA  KISELINA’ OR ‘ASKORBINSKA KISELINA’ OR ‘VITAMINE C’ OR ‘ACIDE ASCORBIQUE’ OR  ‘ASKORBIINIHAPPOA’ OR ‘ASKORBIINIHAPPO’ OR ‘ASKORBIINHAPE’ OR ‘ÁCIDO ASCÓRBICO’ OR  ‘ACIDO ASCORBICO’ OR ‘ASCORBINSÄURE’ OR ‘VITAMIN C’ OR ‘ASKORBINSYRE’ OR ‘ASCORBINSYRE’  OR ‘VITAMÍN C’ OR ‘ACIDUM ASCORBICUM’ OR ‘KYSELINA ASKORBOVÁ’ OR ‘A R A N  C’:tn OR  ‘ABIDEC’:tn OR ‘ACTI 5’:tn OR ‘ACTIVAL EXTRA’:tn OR ‘ADDITIVA VITAMIN C’:tn OR ‘AFTASONE’:tn OR  ‘APHTORAL’:tn OR ‘ASCOFER’:tn OR ‘ASCORGEM’:tn OR ‘ASCORUTIN’:tn OR ‘ASCORVIT’:tn OR  ‘ASCORVITA’:tn OR ‘ATUSIN’:tn OR ‘BECEVIT’:tn OR ‘BECOZYME’:tn OR ‘BENAGOL CON GUSTO  ARANCIA’:tn OR ‘BENAGOL CON VITAMINA C GUSTO ARANCIA’:tn OR ‘BEROCCA’:tn OR  ‘BETASELEN’:tn OR ‘BICIRKAN’:tn OR ‘BOI -K’:tn OR ‘BOI -K ASPÁRTICO’:tn OR ‘CNERGIL’:tn OR ‘C - TARD’:tn OR ‘C -VIMIN’:tn OR ‘C -VITAMIN’:tn OR ‘C -WILL’:tn OR ‘CA -C’:tn OR ‘CAL -C- VITA’:tn OR  ‘CALCEVITA’:tn OR ‘CALCIMAX’:tn OR ‘CALCIUM 500D’:tn OR ‘CALCIUMVITAC’:tn OR ‘CALLERGIN’:tn  OR ‘CE -LIMO’:tn OR ‘CEBIOLON’:tn OR ‘CEBION’:tn OR ‘CECRISINA’:tn OR ‘CEFERRO’:tn OR  ‘CELASKON’:tn OR ‘CEMAFLAVONE’:tn OR ‘CERETARD’:tn OR ‘CERNEVIT’:tn OR ‘CERUTIN’:tn OR  ‘CETAMINE’:tn OR ‘CETEBE’:tn OR ‘CEVIKAP’:tn OR ‘CEVITOL’:tn OR ‘CEVITT LIMUN’:tn OR ‘CI -AGRO  GUSTO ARANCIA’:tn OR ‘CIMILLE’:tn OR ‘CONCAVIT CAPSULES’:tn OR ‘CYCLO3’:tn OR ‘DAGRAVIT  8’:tn OR ‘DAYVITAL’:tn OR ‘DISEPAVIT’:tn OR ‘DULCIVIT COMP’:tn OR ‘DUOTAB OBLOŽENE  TABLETE’:tn OR ‘DUOVIT’:tn OR ‘EFISOL’:tn OR ‘ELEVIFOL’:tn OR ‘ELEVIT’:tn OR ‘EPARGRISEOVIT’:tn  OR ‘EUROVIT’:tn OR ‘EVATON -D’:tn OR ‘FABROVEN’:tn OR ‘FEROGRAD’:tn OR ‘FERRETAB’:tn OR  ‘FERRO GRAD FOLIC’:tn OR ‘FERRO -GRAD C’:tn OR ‘FERRO -GRAD VITAMINE C’:tn OR ‘FORCEVAL’:tn  OR ‘FORUM C’:tn OR ‘GCFORM’:tn OR ‘GERICOMPLEX’:tn OR ‘GREGOVITE C’:tn OR ‘GURONSAN’:tn OR  ‘HEALTHY START CHILDRENS VITAMIN’:tn OR ‘HERBION’:tn OR ‘HIDROPOLIVIT’:tn OR ‘HYDROSOL  POLYVITAMINE’:tn OR ‘IBUVIT C’:tn OR ‘IDO -C’:tn OR ‘IDROPLURIVIT’:tn OR ‘INVERMA S.’:tn OR  ‘INVERMA ZAM’:tn OR ‘IROMIN’:tn OR ‘IRONORM CAPSULES’:tn OR ‘JERN C MEDIC’:tn OR ‘JUVIT C’:tn  OR ‘KETOVITE’:tn OR ‘LAROSCORBINE’:tn OR ‘LEMA C’:tn OR ‘LINUS VITAMIN C’:tn OR ‘LIXIR’:tn OR  ‘LÖSFERRON FORTE’:tn OR ‘MACALVIT’:tn OR ‘MEGA C’:tn OR ‘MEGA CALCIUMASCORBAT’:tn OR  ‘MINORPLEX’:tn OR ‘MOUTH ULCER TABLETS’:tn OR ‘MOVIPREP’:tn OR ‘MOVPREP’:tn OR ‘MULTI - SANOSTOL’:tn OR ‘MULTI -SANOSVIT’:tn OR ‘MULTIVITAMIN’:tn OR ‘MULTIVITPREGNA’:tn OR  ‘NARBALEK’:tn OR ‘NEO BOROCILLINA’:tn OR ‘NICOPRIVE’:tn OR ‘NITROFUR -C’:tn OR ‘NYCOPLUS C - VITAMIN’:tn OR ‘PABRINEX’:tn OR ‘PASCORBIN’:tn OR ‘PHARMATON’:tn OR ‘PIKOVIT’:tn OR ‘PLIVIT     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 84/368   C’:tn OR ‘POREMAX -C’:tn OR ‘PREGNAVIT’:tn OR ‘PRENATAL’:tn OR ‘PRIOVIT’:tn OR ‘PROMATERN’:tn  OR ‘PROTOVIT N’:tn OR ‘QUININE VITAMINE C’:tn OR ‘REDOXC’:tn OR ‘REDOXON’:tn OR  ‘REVITALOSE’:tn OR ‘RUTA -C’:tn OR ‘RUTASCORBIN’:tn OR ‘RUTINAC FORTE’:tn OR ‘RUTINICÊ  FORTÍSSIMO’:tn OR ‘RUTINOSAL C’:tn OR ‘RUTINOSCORBIN’:tn OR ‘SCORBOLAMID’:tn OR  ‘SEBIDIN’:tn OR ‘SICOVIT C LONG EFFECT’:tn OR ‘SICOVIT C MANDARINE’:tn OR ‘SOLUVIT N’:tn OR  ‘SORBIFER DURULES’:tn OR ‘STREPSILS  POMARANC  S VITAMÍNOM  C’:tn OR ‘SUMMAVIT’:tn OR  ‘SUPRADYN’:tn OR ‘SUPRADYNE’:tn OR ‘SURELEN’:tn OR ‘TIMOFEROL’:tn OR ‘TONICALCIUM  ADULTES’:tn OR ‘TOTAMINE CONCENTRE’:tn OR ‘TRIOVIT’:tn OR ‘TROXESCORBIN’:tn OR ‘UNIVIT’:tn  OR ‘UPSA -C’:tn OR ‘UPSAVIT’:tn OR ‘UVESTEROL VITAMINE A.D.E.C.’:tn OR ‘VAGI -C’:tn OR  ‘VARIMINE’:tn OR ‘VEINOBIASE’:tn OR ‘VEINOSTASE’:tn OR ‘VELITEN’:tn OR ‘VIBOVIT BABY’:tn OR  ‘VICI’:tn OR ‘VICOMBIL’:tn OR ‘VITA C’:tn OR ‘VITA -CEDOL’:tn OR ‘VITA -GEM C’:tn OR ‘VITAMEDI - C’:tn OR ‘VITAMIN C’:tn OR ‘VITAMINE C’:tn OR ‘VITAMINUM C’:tn OR ‘VITAMĪNS C’:tn OR  ‘VITASCORBOL’:tn OR ‘VITATHION’:tn OR ‘VITORANGE’:tn OR ‘WERTEN’:tn OR ‘WITAMINA C  MONOVITAN’:tn OR ‘ABIDEC’:tn OR ‘ASCORBIN’:tn OR ‘ASCORUTIN’:tn OR ‘ASCORVIT’:tn OR  ‘BETASELEN’:tn OR ‘BIO C’:tn OR ‘BLACKMORES PREGNANCY’:tn OR ‘BOI -K’:tn OR ‘BURGERSTEIN  VITAMIN C’:tn OR ‘C -VIMIN’:tn OR ‘C -VITAMIN’:tn OR ‘CA -C’:tn OR ‘CAL -C-VITA’:tn OR ‘CALCIUM  500D’:tn OR ‘CEBION’:tn OR ‘CECON’:tn OR ‘CELIN’:tn OR ‘CENOVIS MULTIVITAMIN AND MINERAL’:tn  OR ‘CENTRUM KIDS MULTIVITAMIN AND MINERAL’:tn OR ‘CERNEVIT’:tn OR ‘CERUTIN’:tn OR  ‘CEVALIN’:tn OR ‘CEWIN’:tn OR ‘CITROVIT’:tn OR ‘COENZYME COMPOSITUM’:tn OR ‘DALIVIT’:tn OR  ‘DELUX -C’:tn OR ‘EFISOL’:tn OR ‘ELEVIT’:tn OR ‘EPARGRISEOVIT’:tn OR ‘ESTER -C’:tn OR  ‘FABROVEN’:tn OR ‘FERRO -GRAD C’:tn OR ‘GINGILONE’:tn OR ‘GURONSAN’:tn OR ‘HALIBORANGE’:tn  OR ‘HICEE’:tn OR ‘INFUVITE’:tn OR ‘INTEGRA PLUS’:tn OR ‘KENDURAL’:tn OR ‘LAROSCORBINE’:tn OR  ‘MOVIPREP’:tn OR ‘MULTI -B’:tn OR ‘MULTI -SANOSTOL’:tn OR ‘MULTI -TABS’:tn OR ‘NEOPAREN NO.2’:tn  OR ‘NESTABS RX’:tn OR ‘NITROFUR -C’:tn OR ‘OCUVITE PRESERVISION’:tn OR ‘ONE -A-DAY’:tn OR  ‘PENTA -VITE’:tn OR ‘PHARMATON’:tn OR ‘POTEN -CEE’:tn OR ‘REDOXC’:tn OR ‘REDOXON’:tn OR  ‘REVITONUS C’:tn OR ‘RUBEX’:tn OR ‘SCORBEX’:tn OR ‘SORBIFER DURULES’:tn OR ‘SUBVITAN’:tn OR  ‘SUMMAVIT’:tn OR ‘TIMOFEROL’:tn OR ‘TRI -VI-SOL’:tn OR ‘UPSA -C’:tn OR ‘VEINOBIASE’:tn OR  ‘VELITEN’:tn OR ‘VITA C’:tn OR ‘VITACIMIN’:tn OR ‘VITAMIN C’:tn OR ‘VITAMINE C’:tn OR  ‘VITASCORBOL’:tn OR ‘WOMENS MULTIVITAMIN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 85/368   38. Levetiracetam   ‘LEVETIRACETAM’ OR ‘S -ETIRACETAM’ OR ‘LEWETYRACETAM’ OR ‘LEVETIRACETĀMA’ OR  ‘LEVETIRACETAMUM’ OR ‘LEVETIRACETÁM’ OR ‘LEVETIRACETAMUM’ OR ‘ALTEIN’:tn OR ‘ASNERVON’:tn  OR ‘CEZARIUS’:tn OR ‘DESITREND’:tn OR ‘DRETACEN’:tn OR ‘ELIPTUS’:tn OR ‘EPITIRAM’:tn OR  ‘EPRILEX’:tn OR ‘EPRILEXAN’:tn OR ‘EVETIRACETAM’:tn OR ‘FLADUN’:tn OR ‘GRIFOXINA’:tn OR  ‘INVATRAM’:tn OR ‘ITALEPT’:tn OR ‘KAPIDOKOR’:tn OR ‘KEPILEPT’:tn OR ‘KEPPRA’:tn OR  ‘KEPRICET’:tn OR ‘KEVESY’:tn OR ‘LAURAK’:tn OR ‘LCVETIRACETAM’:tn OR ‘LEPSITAM’:tn OR  ‘LERCASTAD’:tn OR ‘LETIRA’:tn OR ‘LETIRAMYL’:tn OR ‘LEVEBON’:tn OR ‘LEVELAN’:tn OR  ‘LEVELANZ’:tn OR ‘LEVELEP’:tn OR ‘LEVELET’:tn OR ‘LEVEMED’:tn OR ‘LEVEPIL’:tn OR ‘LEVETAN’:tn OR  ‘LEVETIFI’:tn OR ‘LEVETIK’:tn OR ‘LEVETIMCETAM’:tn OR ‘LEVETIRACETAM’:tn OR  ‘LEVETIRACETAMAS’:tn OR ‘LEVETIRAGAMMA’:tn OR ‘LEVETIRAZETAM’:tn OR ‘LEVETIT·ACCTAM’:tn OR  ‘LEVIDCEN’:tn OR ‘LEVIL’:tn OR ‘LEVIP’:tn OR ‘LOCRES’:tn OR ‘LOVOS’:tn OR ‘LUEGO’ :tn OR  ‘LYBEREN’:tn OR ‘LYBEREN ’:tn OR ‘LYVAM’:tn OR ‘LÉVÉTIRACÉTAM’:tn OR ‘MATEVER’:tn OR  ‘MEVLUXA’:tn OR ‘MYAKELL’:tn OR ‘NEWLEV’:tn OR ‘NIRVAL’:tn OR ‘NOEPIX’:tn OR ‘NORMEG’:tn OR  ‘POLKEPRAL’:tn OR ‘PREPALEPAN’:tn OR ‘PTEROCYN’:tn OR ‘QUETRA’:tn OR ‘RECABINIP’:tn OR  ‘REPITEND’:tn OR ‘SYMETRA’:tn OR ‘TAVECOGYL’:tn OR ‘TICEPRO’:tn OR ‘TIRBAS’:tn OR ‘TRUND’:tn  OR ‘VETIRA’:tn OR ‘VETIRACEM’:tn OR ‘ZALCRAN’:tn OR ‘ZELTA’:tn OR ‘ZEPIL’:tn OR ‘CO  LEVETIRACETAM’:tn OR ‘E KEPPRA’:tn OR ‘IVETRA’:tn OR ‘KEPCET’:tn OR ‘KEPPRA’:tn OR ‘KEVTAM’:tn  OR ‘LEVEPIL’:tn OR ‘LEVITAM’:tn OR ‘TORLEVA’:tn OR ‘ZELTA’:tn AND AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   39. Hydrocortisone   ('HYDROCORTISONE' /exp OR 'HYDROCORTISONE' OR 'CORTISOL' /exp OR 'CORTISOL' OR  'HYDROKORTIZÓN' OR 'HIDROCORTIZON' OR 'HYDROKORTYZON' OR 'HIDROKORTIZONO' OR  'IDROCORTISONE' OR 'HYDROCORTISONUM' /exp OR 'HYDROCORTISONUM' OR 'HIDROKORTIZON' OR  'HYDROKORTISONI' OR 'HYDROKORTISONIA' OR 'HÜDROKORTISOONI' OR 'HIDROCORTISONA' OR  'HYDROKORTISON' /exp OR 'HYDROKORTISON' OR 'HYDROCORTISON' /exp OR 'HYDROCORTISON' OR  'HYDROKORTIZON' OR 'ABIX' :tn OR 'ACTOCORTINA' :tn OR 'ADHOC HC' :tn OR 'AFTAJUVENTUS' :tn OR  'AFTASONE INFANTIL' :tn OR 'ALPHADERM' :tn OR 'ALPHOSYL HC' :tn OR 'AMPIKYY' :tn OR  'ANTIHEMORROIDAL' :tn OR 'ANUSOL PLUS HC' :tn OR 'ANUSOL SOOTHING RELIEF' :tn OR 'APHILAN  DEMANGEAISONS' :tn OR 'AQUILAN HC' :tn OR 'ATECORTIN' :tn OR 'AZACORTINE' :tn OR 'BACICOLINE - B':tn OR 'BAYCUTEN HC' :tn OR 'BRENTACORT' :tn OR 'BUCORT' :tn OR 'CALMICORT' :tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 86/368   'CALMIOX' :tn OR 'CANDIPLAS H' :tn OR 'CARPLEXIL' :tn OR 'CERVUGID' :tn OR 'CHLORCHINALDIN H' :tn  OR 'CONFORMA HYDROCORTISON' :tn OR 'CONFORMA HYDROCORTISONE' :tn OR 'CORHYDRON' :tn OR  'CORT -INAL' :tn OR 'CORTAPAISYL' :tn OR 'CORTEXAN FRAMYCETINE' :tn OR 'CORTIDRO' :tn OR  'CORTILIND' :tn OR 'CORTIMYK' :tn OR 'CORTISEDERMYL' :tn OR 'CORTISON CHEMICETINA' :tn OR  'CORTIVIS' :tn OR 'CORTOPIN' :tn OR 'CREMICORT' :tn OR 'CREMICORT -H':tn OR 'DAKTODOR' :tn OR  'DERMA CARE HYDROCORTISONE BOOTS' :tn OR 'DERMO HUBBER' :tn OR 'DERMOCORTAL' :tn OR  'DERMOFENAC DEMANGEAISONS' :tn OR 'DERMOSA HIDROCORTISONA' :tn OR 'DETRAMAX' :tn OR  'DIODERM' :tn OR 'DUOCORT' :tn OR 'EBENOL' :tn OR 'EFCORTESOL' :tn OR 'EFFICORT HYDROPHILE' :tn  OR 'EFFICORT LIPOPHILE' :tn OR 'EKZEMSALBE' :tn OR 'EPICUTANTESTTROLAB' :tn OR  'FENIHYDROCORT' :tn OR 'FENISTIL HYDROCORT' :tn OR 'FICORTRIL' :tn OR 'FOILLE' :tn OR  'FUCIDIN' :tn OR 'FUCIDINE' :tn OR 'FUSACID H' :tn OR 'GENTAMICIN AND HYDROCORTISONE  ACETATE' :tn OR 'GENTISONE' :tn OR 'GEOKORTON' :tn OR 'HC45' :tn OR 'HEMKORTIN -HC':tn OR  'HEMODREN' :tn OR 'HEMORRANE' :tn OR 'HEMORZON' :tn OR 'HIDROALTESONA' :tn OR  'HIDROCORTISONA' :tn OR 'HIDROCORTIZON' :tn OR 'HIKOMICRON' :tn OR 'HITODEN' :tn OR  'HYDRACORT' :tn OR 'HYDROCORTISTAB' :tn OR 'HYDROCTIN' :tn OR 'HYDROCUTAN' :tn OR  'HYDRODEXAN' :tn OR 'HYDROFUSIN' :tn OR 'HYDROGALEN CREME' :tn OR 'HYDROMOL HC  INTENSIVE' :tn OR 'ISDINIUM' :tn OR 'K & P HYDROCORTISON' :tn OR 'KANAMICINA SULFAT H' :tn OR  'KINOGEN' :tn OR 'KYYPAKKAUS' :tn OR 'LACTISONA' :tn OR 'LANACORT' :tn OR 'LENIRIT' :tn OR 'LINOLA  AKUT' :tn OR 'LINOLACORT HYDRO' :tn OR 'LYO -CORTIN' :tn OR  'MICONAZOLNITRAAT/HYDROCORTISON' :tn OR 'MILDISON LIPID' :tn OR 'MILDISON LIPOCREAM' :tn  OR 'MUNI HC' :tn OR 'NEO -HUBBER' :tn OR 'NUTRASONA' :tn OR 'NYSTADERM COMP' :tn OR  'NYSTAFORM HC' :tn OR 'NYSTATIN COMP ACIS' :tn OR 'OFTALMOLOSA CUSI HIDROCORTISONA' :tn OR  'OFTAN C -C':tn OR 'OPHTHALMO' :tn OR 'ORALSONE ADULTOS' :tn OR 'OTOSOPORIN' :tn OR  'OXIMED' :tn OR 'PANDERMIL' :tn OR 'PANNOCORT' :tn OR 'PANTYSON' :tn OR 'PLENADREN' :tn OR  'POLYSPECTRAN' :tn OR 'PREPACORTH' :tn OR 'PROKTOSEDON' :tn OR 'RAPICORT' :tn OR 'RETEF' :tn OR  'SANATISON MONO' :tn OR 'SEPTOMIXINE' :tn OR 'SINTOTRAT' :tn OR 'SKINCALM BITE AND STING  RELIEF' :tn OR 'SKINCALM BITE AND STING' :tn OR 'SUNIDERMA' :tn OR 'SYSTRAL HYDROCORT' :tn OR  'TERRACORT' :tn OR 'TETRAN -HYDROCORTISON' :tn OR 'TIMODINE' :tn OR 'TISUDERMA' :tn OR  'TROLAB' :tn OR 'TROSYCORT' :tn OR 'TRUE TEST' :tn OR 'UNIROID -HC':tn OR 'ZURE OORDRUPPELS  MET HYDROCORTISON' :tn OR 'A -HYDROCORT' :tn OR 'ABOCOAT' :tn OR 'ALACORT' :tn OR  'ALFACORTON' :tn OR 'ALFASON' :tn OR 'ANALPRAM E' :tn OR 'ANUCORT -HC':tn OR 'ANUGESIC HC' :tn  OR 'ANUSOL -HC':tn OR 'BACICOLINE A LA BACITRACINE' :tn OR 'BERLISON' :tn OR 'BRENTAN' :tn OR  'CALMURID HC' :tn OR 'CANESTEN HC' :tn OR 'CARMOL HC' :tn OR 'CLEITON' :tn OR 'COLIFOAM' :tn OR  'COLOCORT' :tn OR 'COLOFOAM' :tn OR 'CORLAN' :tn OR 'CORTAID' :tn OR 'CORTAMED' :tn OR  'CORTATE' :tn OR 'CORTEF' :tn OR 'CORTENEMA' :tn OR 'CORTIC' :tn OR 'CORTIC -DS':tn OR  'CORTIFOAM' :tn OR 'CORTISONAL' :tn OR 'CORTISONE CVS' :tn OR 'CORTISONE MAXIMUM  STRENGTH' :tn OR 'CORTISPORIN' :tn OR 'CORTIZONE' :tn OR 'CORTODERM' :tn OR 'CORTOMYCIN' :tn  OR 'CORTRIL' :tn OR 'COVOCORT' :tn OR 'CREMOR HYDROCORTISONI' :tn OR 'DAKTACORT' :tn OR  'DERMABLEND' :tn OR 'DERMACORT' :tn OR 'DERMAID' :tn OR 'DERMASOL' :tn OR 'DHARTI -SONE' :tn OR  'EGOCORT' :tn OR 'EMO CORT' :tn OR 'EMO -CORT' :tn OR 'EPIFOAM' :tn OR 'EURAX H' :tn OR 'EURAX  HC':tn OR 'EURAX HYDROCORTISONE' :tn OR 'FLEBOCORTID' :tn OR 'GENKORT' :tn OR 'HAEMOLEX' :tn  OR 'HC' :tn OR 'HIDROCISDIN' :tn OR 'HIPOKORT' :tn OR 'HYCORT' :tn OR 'HYDERM' :tn OR  'HYDROCORT' :tn OR 'HYDROCORTISON' :tn OR 'HYDROCORTISON -VASELINECRÈME 1% FNA  TIOFARMA' :tn OR 'HYDROCORTISONE' :tn OR 'HYDROCORTISYL' :tn OR 'HYDROCORTONE' :tn OR  'HYDROCYCLIN' :tn OR 'HYDRODERM' :tn OR 'HYDROKORTISON' :tn OR 'HYDROSON' :tn OR  'HYDROSONE' :tn OR 'HYDROZOLE' :tn OR 'HYSONE' :tn OR 'HYTON' :tn OR 'HYTONE' :tn OR 'ITORON' :tn  OR 'LACTICARE -HC':tn OR 'LATICORT' :tn OR 'LOCOID' :tn OR 'LOCOIDON' :tn OR 'NEO -CORTISONE' :tn  OR 'NOVO -HYDROCORT' :tn OR 'NUTRACORT' :tn OR 'NYSTAFORM' :tn OR 'OTOSPORIN' :tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 87/368   'OXYCORT' :tn OR 'PANDEL' :tn OR 'PENTAMYCETIN HC' :tn OR 'PIMAFUCORT' :tn OR 'POSTERISAN F' :tn  OR 'PRAMOSONE' :tn OR 'PREVEX HC' :tn OR 'PROCTOCORT' :tn OR 'PROCTOCREAM HC' :tn OR  'PROCTOFOAM HC' :tn OR 'PROCTOFOAM -HC':tn OR 'PROCTOL' :tn OR 'PROCTOSEDYL' :tn OR  'PROCTOSOL HC' :tn OR 'PROCTOSOLL' :tn OR 'PROCTOZONE HC' :tn OR 'SARNA HC' :tn OR  'SAXIZON' :tn OR 'SCALPICIN' :tn OR 'SIBICORT' :tn OR 'SIGMACORT' :tn OR 'SOLU CORTEF' :tn OR  'SOLU -CORTEF' :tn OR 'SOVENTOL' :tn OR 'TERRA -CORTRIL' :tn OR 'TERRACORTRIL' :tn OR  'UNGUENTUM HYDROCORTISONI' :tn)  AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   40. Terbinafine   ‘TERBINAFINE’ OR ‘TERBINAFINA’ OR ‘TERBINAFĪNS’ OR ‘TERBINAFINAS’ OR ‘TERBINAFINUM’ OR   ‘TERBINAFIN’ OR ‘TERBINAFIIN’ OR ‘TERBINAFINA’ OR ‘TERBINAFIN’ OR ‘AMIADA’:tn OR ‘AMYKAL’:tn  OR ‘ANAPLAS’:tn OR ‘ANTISCHIMMELCRÈME TERBINAFINE’:tn OR ‘ATERE’:tn OR ‘ATERE KREMA’:tn OR  ‘ATHLETE FOOT CREAM’:tn OR ‘ATHLETES FOOT’:tn OR ‘BINANIDDA’:tn OR ‘CHEMIDERM’:tn OR  ‘DASKIL’:tn OR ‘DEMSIL’:tn OR ‘DERMATIN’:tn OR ‘ERFIN’:tn OR ‘ERFINAZIN’:tn OR ‘EXIFINE’:tn OR  ‘FINIGEN’:tn OR ‘FONGEAL’:tn OR ‘FUNGASIL’:tn OR ‘FUNGIFEX’:tn OR ‘FUNGIL’:tn OR ‘FUNGINIX’:tn  OR ‘FUNGISIL’:tn OR ‘FUNGIZID -’:tn OR ‘FUNGORIN’:tn OR ‘FUNGSTER’:tn OR ‘HUIDSCHIMMELCRÈME  TERBINAFINE HCL’:tn OR ‘IDYL ANTISCHIMMELCRÈME TERBINAFINE HCL’:tn OR ‘KREM’:tn OR  ‘LAMATER’:tn OR ‘LAMICOSIL’:tn OR ‘LAMIFORTAN ACTIVE’:tn OR ‘LAMISIL’:tn OR ‘LAMISILATE’:tn OR  ‘LAMISILATT’:tn OR ‘LAMISILDERMGEL’:tn OR ‘LAMISILMONO’:tn OR ‘LANAFINE’:tn OR ‘LANAFINE AFR  CREAM’:tn OR ‘MEDOFLORAN’:tn OR ‘MICOREX’:tn OR ‘MICUTAN’:tn OR ‘MYCONAFINE’:tn OR  ‘MYCONORMIN’:tn OR ‘NAILDERM’:tn OR ‘NIDDAFIN’:tn OR ‘PAVLINOX’:tn OR ‘SCHOLL’:tn OR  ‘SOLUTERB’:tn OR ‘TAFICEN’:tn OR ‘TEFIN’:tn OR ‘TENASIL’:tn OR ‘TERANFIS’:tn OR ‘TERBAFIN’:tn OR  ‘TERBASIL’:tn OR ‘TERBIDERM’:tn OR ‘TERBIGALEN’:tn OR ‘TERBIGEN’:tn OR ‘TERBIGRAM’:tn OR  ‘TERBILUM’:tn OR ‘TERBIN’:tn OR ‘TERBINA -Q’:tn OR ‘TERBINACIN HCL ACIS ACIS’:tn OR  ‘TERBINAFIN’:tn OR ‘TERBINAFINA’:tn OR ‘TERBINAFINE’:tn OR ‘TERBINAFINHYDROCHLORID’:tn OR  ‘TERBINAFINI’:tn OR ‘TERBINAFINĂ’:tn OR ‘TERBINARAN’:tn OR ‘TERBINAX’:tn OR ‘TERBINER’:tn OR  ‘TERBIPROL’:tn OR ‘TERBISIL’:tn OR ‘TERBISTAD’:tn OR ‘TERBISTADA’:tn OR ‘TERBITAL’:tn OR  ‘TERFIMED’:tn OR ‘TERFIN’:tn OR ‘TERFINOR’:tn OR ‘TERMYCOL’:tn OR ‘TERNAF’:tn OR ‘TERNAFIN’:tn  OR ‘TERNAFINOL’:tn OR ‘TERSILAT’:tn OR ‘ TERBINAFINE’:tn OR ‘TINEAL’:tn OR ‘UNDOFEN MAX’:tn OR  ‘ZAKOFIN’:tn OR ‘ZELEFION’:tn OR ‘ΤERBINAFINE’:tn OR ‘TERBINAFINE’:tn OR ‘DASKIL’:tn OR  ‘EXIFINE’:tn OR ‘LAMISIL’:tn OR ‘LAMISILATE’:tn OR ‘LAMISILDERMGEL’:tn OR ‘LAMITEL’:tn OR  ‘MYCONORMIN’:tn OR ‘NEDORIL’:tn OR ‘RAMITECT’:tn OR ‘SEBIFIN’:tn OR ‘TEBEANA’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 88/368   ‘TEBINACEIL’:tn OR ‘TERBIFIL’:tn OR ‘TERBINAFIN’:tn OR ‘TERBINAFINE’:tn OR ‘TERBINAL’:tn OR  ‘TERBINAX’:tn OR ‘TERBINEX’:tn OR ‘TERMISIL’:tn OR ‘TINEAFIN’:tn OR ‘ZABEL’:tn AND ('adverse  drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR  'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   41. Anastrozole   ‘ANASTROZOLE’ OR ‘ANASTROZOL’ OR ‘ANASTROZOLA’ OR ‘ANASTROZOLS’ OR ‘ANASTROZOLAS’ OR  ‘ANASTROZOLUM’ OR ‘ANASZTROZOL’ OR ‘ANASTROZOLO’ OR ‘ANASZTROZOL’ OR ‘ANASTROZOL’ OR  ‘ANASTRÓSÓL’ OR ‘ANASTROTSOLI’ OR ‘ANASTROTSOLIA’ OR ‘ANASTROSOOL’ OR  ‘AGERDEX’:tn OR  ‘AMENUR’:tn OR ‘AMIDEX’:tn OR ‘ANABLOCK’:tn OR ‘ANABREST’:tn OR ‘ANACEL’:tn OR ‘ANAPREX’:tn  OR ‘ANAROMAT’:tn OR ‘ANASTAR’:tn OR ‘ANASTELB’:tn OR ‘ANASTRAD’:tn OR ‘ANASTRALAN’:tn OR  ‘ANASTRAROM’:tn OR ‘ANASTRAZE’:tn OR ‘ANASTRAZOL’:tn OR ‘ANASTRAZOL’:tn OR  ‘ANASTRAZOLE’:tn OR ‘ANASTRIS’:tn OR ‘ANASTRO -CELL’:tn OR ‘ANASTRODAC’:tn OR  ‘ANASTROGEN’:tn OR ‘ANASTROHEXAL’:tn OR ‘ANASTROLAN’:tn OR ‘ANASTROMIN’:tn OR  ‘ANASTROZEX’:tn OR ‘ANASTROZOL’:tn OR ‘ANASTROZOLE’:tn OR ‘ANASTROZOLO’:tn OR  ‘ANATROZOL RATIO’:tn OR ‘ANAYA’:tn OR ‘ANAZOL’:tn OR ‘ANOXIDIL’:tn OR ‘ANSYN’:tn OR  ‘ANASTROZOL’:tn OR ‘NASTROL’:tn OR ‘AREMED’:tn OR ‘ARILLA’:tn OR ‘ARMOTRAZ’:tn OR  ‘ASTRALIS’:tn OR ‘ASTRAZOL’:tn OR ‘ASTROL’:tn OR ‘ASTROZOL’:tn OR ‘ATROCELA’:tn OR  ‘ATROZOL’:tn OR ‘AVOMIN’:tn OR ‘AXASTROL’:tn OR ‘AZONET’:tn OR ‘BARSTRA’:tn OR ‘BIOSTROL’:tn  OR ‘EGISTROZOL’:tn OR ‘ELOZA’:tn OR ‘ENZAMIDEX’:tn OR ‘ERISTROL’:tn OR ‘EUROSTROZOL’:tn OR  ‘EXTROPLEX’:tn OR ‘GRISET’:tn OR ‘INIBEN’:tn OR ‘KYARESTA’:tn OR ‘LONDER’:tn OR  ‘MAMOSTROL’:tn OR ‘MASTROL’:tn OR ‘NASTRIN’:tn OR ‘NOBREC’:tn OR ‘ONCOFEM’:tn OR ‘OXEDA’:tn  OR ‘OZOLAN’:tn OR ‘PINNAU’:tn OR ‘RAOLOZ’:tn OR ‘RIBOMIDEX’:tn OR ‘STRAKIR’:tn OR  ‘STRAZOLAN’:tn OR ‘VALEX’:tn OR ‘XTROZOL’:tn OR ‘ZENBREST’:tn OR ‘ZOLITRAT’:tn OR ‘ZOLKIR’:tn  OR ‘ZOLZYN’:tn OR ‘ZYNZOL’:tn OR ‘ANASTROZOL’:tn OR ‘ANASTROZOLE’:tn OR ‘ARIMIDEX’:tn OR  ‘REMIDEX’:tn OR ‘VALEX’:tn OR ‘ZOLASATIN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 89/368   'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   42. Citalopram   ‘CITALOPRAM’ OR ‘CYTALOPRAM’ OR ‘CITALOPRĀMA’ OR ‘CITALOP RAMUM’ OR ‘CITALOPRÁMNAK’ OR   ‘SITALOPRAAMI’ OR ‘CITALOPRAM’ OR ‘CITALOPRAM’ OR ‘CITALOPRAMUM’ OR ‘A -DEPRESS - THERAPY’:tn OR ‘ACELOPAM’:tn OR ‘ADEPRENAL’:tn OR ‘ALEPRAM’:tn OR ‘CITAL’:tn OR ‘AUREX’:tn OR  ‘CILODRAL’:tn OR ‘CINAVOL’:tn OR ‘CIPRAGER’:tn OR ‘CIPRAMIL’:tn OR ‘CIPRANED’:tn OR  ‘CIPROTAN’:tn OR ‘CIRAL’:tn OR ‘CITABAX’:tn OR ‘CITACIP’:tn OR ‘CITAGEN’:tn OR ‘CITAL’:tn OR  ‘CITALEC’:tn OR ‘CITALICH’:tn OR ‘CITALODEP’:tn OR ‘CITALOGAMMA’:tn OR ‘CITALON’:tn OR  ‘CITALONTE’:tn OR ‘CITALOPRAM’:tn OR ‘CITALOPROL’:tn OR ‘CITALOSTAD’:tn OR ‘CITALOX’:tn OR  ‘CITAPRAM’:tn OR ‘CITAXIN’:tn OR ‘CITESINT’:tn OR ‘CITROL’:tn OR ‘CITRONIL’:tn OR ‘DALSAN’:tn OR  ‘DECILOP’:tn OR ‘ECLORAM’:tn OR ‘ELOPRAM’:tn OR ‘EXANADIL’:tn OR ‘FELIPRAM’:tn OR  ‘GALOPRAN’:tn OR ‘GOLDAMIT’:tn OR ‘KAIDOR’:tn OR ‘LINISAN’:tn OR ‘LOPRACIL’:tn OR  ‘LOPRAXER’:tn OR ‘LOPTAR’:tn OR ‘LOXOPRAM’:tn OR ‘MALICON’:tn OR ‘NEPRAM’:tn OR ‘OROPRAM’:tn  OR ‘PERCITALE’:tn OR ‘PRALOTAM’:tn OR ‘PRAM’:tn OR ‘PRAMITAL’:tn OR ‘PREFUCET’:tn OR  ‘PRICITAL’:tn OR ‘PRISDAL’:tn OR ‘RELAPAZ’:tn OR ‘RENEVIL’:tn OR ‘RICAP’:tn OR ‘ROPRAMIN’:tn OR  ‘SELON’:tn OR ‘SEPRAM’:tn OR ‘SEREGRA’:tn OR ‘SEROPRAM’:tn OR ‘SEROR’:tn OR ‘SILOAM’:tn OR  ‘SINTOPRAM’:tn OR ‘SITALEAU’:tn OR ‘SOTOVON’:tn OR ‘STARCITIN’:tn OR ‘TALOSIN’:tn OR  ‘UNSTRESS’:tn OR ‘VAROM’:tn OR ‘VERUS’:tn OR ‘VESEMA’:tn OR ‘XADOREK’:tn OR ‘ZANIPRAM’:tn OR  ‘ZECLICID’:tn OR ‘ZITOLEX’:tn OR ‘ZYLORAM’:tn OR ‘ALCYTAM’:tn OR ‘CALTON’:tn OR ‘CELAPRAM’:tn  OR ‘CELEXA’:tn OR ‘CIAZIL’:tn OR ‘CILIFT’:tn OR ‘CIPRAM’:tn OR ‘CIPRAMIL’:tn OR ‘CIPROTAN’:tn OR  ‘CITA’:tn OR ‘CITAL’:tn OR ‘ CITALEC’:tn OR ‘CITALON’:tn OR  ‘CITALOPROL’:tn OR ‘CITAPRAM’:tn OR  ‘CITOPRAM’:tn OR ‘CITOX’:tn OR ‘CITROL’:tn OR ‘CITTA’:tn OR ‘CLAROPRAM’:tn OR ‘CO  CITALOPRAM’:tn OR ‘CTP 30’:tn OR ‘DENYL’:tn OR ‘MAXAPRAN’:tn OR ‘PMS -CITALOPRAM’:tn OR  ‘PRAM’:tn OR ‘PROCIMAX’:tn OR ‘PSICONOR’:tn OR ‘RAN -CITALO’:tn OR ‘RATIO -CITALOPRAM’:tn OR  ‘RECITAL’:tn OR ‘SEPRAM’:tn OR ‘SEROPRAM’:tn OR ‘TALAM’:tn OR ‘ZENTIUS’:tn OR ‘ZYLORAM’:tn  AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR  misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp  OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 90/368   OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   43. Ranitidine   ‘RANITIDINE’ OR ‘RANITIDÍN’ OR ‘RANITIDINA’ OR ‘RANITYDYNA’ OR ‘RANITIDĪNS’ OR ‘RANITIDINAS’  OR ‘RANITIDINUM’ OR ‘RANITIDINA’ OR ‘RANITIDIN’ OR ‘RANITIDINA’ OR ‘ACIDINE’:tn OR  ‘ACIKURE’:tn OR ‘ACILOC’:tn OR ‘ALPHADINE’:tn OR ‘ALQUÉN’:tn OR ‘ARDORAL’:tn OR ‘ARNETIN’:tn  OR ‘ASDA INDIGESTION RELIEF’:tn OR ‘ASYRAN’:tn OR ‘ASÝRAN’:tn OR ‘AZANTAC’:tn OR  ‘BAROXAL’:tn OR ‘BINDAZAC’:tn OR ‘BLOCULCER’:tn OR ‘BOOTS EXCESS ACID RELIEF’:tn OR ‘BOOTS  HEARTBURN RELIEF’:tn OR ‘BUSCOPAN ANTIACIDO’:tn OR ‘CORALEN’:tn OR ‘EPADOREN’:tn OR  ‘GASTRANIN ZDROVIT’:tn OR ‘GASTRIDINA’:tn OR ‘GASTROBEL’:tn OR ‘GAVILAST’:tn OR ‘GERTAC’:tn  OR ‘GERTOCALM’:tn OR ‘GIPSY’:tn OR ‘HISTAC’:tn OR ‘INSIDE’:tn OR ‘INSIDE BRUS’:tn OR  ‘ISAPRANDIL ANTIACIDO’:tn OR ‘JUNIZAC’:tn OR ‘KRUIDVAT MAAGZUURREMMER RANITIDINE’:tn OR  ‘KURACID’:tn OR ‘INDIGESTION RELIEF’:tn OR ‘HEARTBURN & INDIGESTION RELIEF, RANICALM’:tn  OR ‘LOMADRYL’:tn OR ‘MAAGZUURREMMER RANITIDINE’:tn OR ‘MEDIRAN’:tn OR ‘MORRISONS  INDIGESTION RELIEF’:tn OR ‘NARIGEN’:tn OR ‘NIPODUR’:tn OR ‘NUMARK EXCESS ACID RELIEF’:tn OR  ‘NUMARK INDIGESTION RELIEF’:tn OR ‘PEP -RANI’:tn OR ‘PEPTORAN’:tn OR ‘PTINOLIN’:tn OR ‘RANI - NERTON’:tn OR ‘RANI -Q’:tn OR ‘RANIBEN’:tn OR ‘RANIBERL’:tn OR ‘RANIBLOC’:tn OR ‘RANIC’:tn OR  ‘RANICUX’:tn OR ‘RANIDIL’:tn OR ‘RANIDURA T’:tn OR ‘RANIGAST’:tn OR ‘RANIMAX’:tn OR  ‘RANINORM’:tn OR ‘RANIPLEX’:tn OR ‘RANISAN’:tn OR ‘RANISYNT’:tn OR ‘RANITAL’:tn OR ‘RANITIC’:tn  OR ‘RANITIDIN’:tn OR ‘RANITIDINA’:tn OR ‘RANITIDINE’:tn OR ‘RANITIDINĂ LPH’:tn OR ‘RANITIDNE  HYDROCHLORIDE’:tn OR ‘RANITIL’:tn OR ‘RANITINE’:tn OR ‘RANITYDYNA’:tn OR ‘RANIX’:tn OR  ‘RANIXAL’:tn OR ‘RANOPINE’:tn OR ‘RANTIN’:tn OR ‘RANZAC’:tn OR ‘RIFLUX’:tn OR ‘SAINSBURYS  INDIGESTION RELIEF’:tn OR ‘SENSIGARD’:tn OR ‘SOLVERTYL’:tn OR ‘STACER’:tn OR ‘STOMACID’:tn  OR ‘SUPERDRUG HEARTBURN & INDIGESTION RELIEF’:tn OR ‘SVELTANET’:tn OR ‘TANIDINA’:tn OR  ‘TERPOSEN’:tn OR ‘TESCO INDIGIESTION RELIEF’:tn OR ‘TORIOL’:tn OR ‘TREKPLEISTER  MAAGZUURREMMER RANITIDINE’:tn OR ‘TUPAST’:tn OR ‘ULCERAN’:tn OR ‘ULCEX’:tn OR ‘ULCODYN’:tn  OR ‘ULSAL’:tn OR ‘ULTAK’:tn OR ‘UMAREN’:tn OR ‘WILKO INDIGESTION RELIEF’:tn OR ‘YARA’:tn OR  ‘ZANTAC’:tn OR ‘ZANTIC’:tn OR ‘ZOLIDEN’:tn OR ‘ZURFIX F.C.’:tn OR ‘ACID REDUCER’:tn OR  ‘ACILOC’:tn OR ‘ACLORAL’:tn OR ‘ANTAK’:tn OR ‘RANITIDINE’:tn OR ‘ARNETIN’:tn OR ‘AUSRAN’:tn OR  ‘AZANTAC’:tn OR ‘BRAULIBERA’:tn OR ‘CO RANITIDINE’:tn OR ‘EQUATE ACID REDUCER’:tn OR  ‘FRAXIPARINE FORTE’:tn OR ‘HISTAC’:tn OR ‘HISTAK’:tn OR ‘INSIDE’:tn OR ‘LABEL’:tn OR  ‘LANIZAC’:tn OR ‘LUMAREN’:tn OR ‘NU -RANIT’:tn OR ‘R -LOC’:tn OR ‘RADEN’:tn OR ‘RANI’:tn OR  ‘RANIDIL’:tn OR ‘RANIDIN’:tn OR ‘RANIDINE’:tn OR ‘RANIDURA T’:tn OR ‘RANIGAST’:tn OR  ‘RANIHEXAL’:tn OR ‘RANIMAX’:tn OR ‘RANIMERCK’:tn OR ‘RANIPLEX’:tn OR ‘RANISAN’:tn OR  ‘RANISEN’:tn OR ‘RANITAB’:tn OR ‘RANITAL’:tn OR ‘RANITIC’:tn OR ‘RANITIDIN’:tn OR  ‘RANITIDINA’:tn OR ‘RANITIDINE’:tn OR ‘RANITIL’:tn OR ‘RANITIN’:tn OR ‘RANITINE’:tn OR  ‘RANITIZANE’:tn OR ‘RANTAC’:tn OR ‘RANTAG’:tn OR ‘RANTIN’:tn OR ‘RENFORT’:tn OR ‘SOSTRIL’:tn  OR ‘TAURAL’:tn OR ‘ -RANITIDINE’:tn OR ‘TSURUDEK’:tn OR ‘ULCERAN’:tn OR ‘ULCURAN’:tn OR  ‘VESYCA’:tn OR ‘XANIDINE’:tn OR ‘ZANDİD’:tn OR ‘ZANIDEX’:tn OR ‘ZANTAC’:tn OR ‘ZANTIC’:tn OR  ‘ZANTIN’:tn OR ‘ZENDHIN’:tn OR ‘ZORAN’:tn OR ‘ZYLIUM’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 91/368   OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   44. Metformin   ‘METFORMIN’ OR ‘DIMETHYLDIGUANIDE’ OR ‘METFORMINUM’ OR ‘METFORMINE’ OR ‘METFORMINA’ OR  ‘ADIMET’:tn OR ‘AGLURAB’:tn OR ‘AVAMINA’:tn OR ‘AVANDAMET’:tn OR ‘BELFORMIN’:tn OR  ‘BIDIAB’:tn OR ‘BOLAMYN;ALMUS’:tn OR ‘BROT’:tn OR ‘COMPETACT’:tn OR ‘DIABESIN’:tn OR  ‘DIABETEX’:tn OR ‘DIAGLIMET’:tn OR ‘DIAMED’:tn OR ‘DIANBEN’:tn OR ‘DIAREG’:tn OR ‘DIFORMIN’:tn  OR ‘EFFICIB’:tn OR ‘ETFORM’:tn OR ‘EUCREAS’:tn OR ‘FORMAGLIBEN’:tn OR ‘FORMAGLYBEN’:tn OR  ‘FORMET’:tn OR ‘FORMETIC’:tn OR ‘GERFORMIN’:tn OR ‘GLIBOMET’:tn OR ‘GLICONORM’:tn OR  ‘GLICOREST’:tn OR ‘GLUBRAVA’:tn OR ‘GLUCIENT SR’:tn OR ‘GLUCOBON’:tn OR ‘GLUCOFOLIN’:tn OR  ‘GLUCOFREE’:tn OR ‘GLUCOPHAGE’:tn OR ‘GLUCOPLUS’:tn OR ‘GLUCOSTOP’:tn OR ‘GLUCOVANCE’:tn  OR ‘GLUFORLYN’:tn OR ‘GLUFORMIN’:tn OR ‘GLUMETSAN’:tn OR ‘GLYCOFREN’:tn OR ‘GLYFORMIN’:tn  OR ‘ICANDRA’:tn OR ‘JANUMET’:tn OR ‘JENTADUETO’:tn OR ‘JUFORMIN’:tn OR ‘LANGERIN’:tn OR  ‘MEDIABET’:tn OR ‘MEFORAL’:tn OR ‘MEGLUCON’:tn OR ‘MEGUAN’:tn OR ‘MERCKFORMIN’:tn OR  ‘METABET SR’:tn OR ‘METBAY’:tn OR ‘METFO’:tn OR ‘METFOCELL’:tn OR ‘METFOGAMMA’:tn OR  ‘METFOMIN ’:tn OR ‘METFONORM’:tn OR ‘METFOR -’:tn OR ‘METFORAL’:tn OR ‘METFORALMILLE’:tn OR  ‘METFOREM’:tn OR ‘METFORMAX’:tn OR ‘METFORMDOC’:tn OR ‘METFORMIN’:tn OR  ‘METFORMIN/GLIBENKLAMID’:tn OR ‘METFORMINA’:tn OR ‘METFORMINA TOLIFE’:tn OR ‘METFORMINA  WYNN’:tn OR ‘METFORMINE’:tn OR ‘METFORMINHYDROCHLORID’:tn OR ‘METFORMINIJEV KLORID’:tn  OR ‘METFORMINĂ GENERICS’:tn OR ‘METIFOR’:tn OR ‘METNIT’:tn OR ‘METNOVA’:tn OR  ‘METOPHAGE’:tn OR ‘METSOP’:tn OR ‘METTAS’:tn OR ‘MITFORGEN’:tn OR ‘MYLMET’:tn OR ‘NEOMID’:tn  OR ‘NOCTEAZE’:tn OR ‘NOCTEAZE SR’:tn OR ‘NORMAGLYC’:tn OR ‘NORMELL’:tn OR ‘ORABET,  GLUCAMET, MILFORM’:tn OR ‘ORAMET’:tn OR ‘RISIDON’:tn OR ‘RISTFOR’:tn OR ‘ROMAC’:tn OR  ‘SERDENIS’:tn OR ‘SIOFOR’:tn OR ‘SLOWMET’:tn OR ‘SOLUME’:tn OR ‘SOLUMET’:tn OR ‘SOPHAMET’:tn  OR ‘STADAMET’:tn OR ‘STAGID’:tn OR ‘SUGUAN’:tn OR ‘SUKKARTO’:tn OR ‘SUKONTROL’:tn OR  ‘MET’:tn OR ‘TIGLOR’:tn OR ‘VELMETIA’:tn OR ‘VIPDOMET’:tn OR ‘VOKANAMET’:tn OR ‘XIGDUO’:tn OR  ‘ZOMARIST’:tn OR ‘ZUGLIMET’:tn OR ‘ACTOPLUS MET’:tn OR ‘AVANDAMET’:tn OR ‘BI -EUGLUCON M’:tn  OR ‘CLORIDRATO DE METFORMINA MEDLEY’:tn OR ‘CO METFORMIN’:tn OR ‘DABEX’:tn OR  ‘DIABESIN’:tn OR ‘DIABETEX’:tn OR ‘DIABETMIN’:tn OR ‘DIABEX’:tn OR ‘DIAFORMIN’:tn OR  ‘DIANBEN’:tn OR ‘DIFORMIN’:tn OR ‘DIMEFOR’:tn OR ‘EUCREAS’:tn OR ‘FICONAX’:tn OR ‘FORMET’:tn  OR ‘FORMETIC’:tn OR ‘FORMIN’:tn OR ‘FORMINAL’:tn OR ‘FORTAMET’:tn OR ‘GALVUMET’:tn OR  ‘GALVUSMET’:tn OR ‘GLAFORNIL’:tn OR ‘GLIBETA’:tn OR ‘GLIBOMET’:tn OR ‘GLICONORM’:tn OR  ‘GLIFAGE’:tn OR ‘GLIFOR’:tn OR ‘GLUCOFAGE’:tn OR ‘GLUCOFORMIN’:tn OR ‘GLUCOHEXAL’:tn OR  ‘GLUCOMET’:tn OR ‘GLUCOMIN’:tn OR ‘GLUCON’:tn OR ‘GLUCOPHAGE’:tn OR ‘GLUCOTEC’:tn OR  ‘GLUCOVANCE’:tn OR ‘GLUFORMIN’:tn OR ‘GLUMET’:tn OR ‘GLUMETSAN’:tn OR ‘GLUMETZA’:tn OR  ‘GLURIAD’:tn OR ‘GLYCOMET’:tn OR ‘GLYCON’:tn OR ‘GLYCORAN’:tn OR ‘GLYFORMIN’:tn OR  ‘GLYMET’:tn OR ‘I -MAX’:tn OR ‘INSOGEN PLUS’:tn OR ‘JALRA M’:tn OR ‘JANUMET’:tn OR  ‘JENTADUETO’:tn OR ‘MATOFIN’:tn OR ‘MEDET’:tn OR ‘MEDIABET’:tn OR ‘MEGLUCON’:tn OR  ‘MELBIN’:tn OR ‘MET’:tn OR ‘METEX’:tn OR ‘METFIN’:tn OR ‘METFOGAMMA’:tn OR ‘METFOR’:tn OR  ‘METFORAL’:tn OR ‘METFOREM’:tn OR ‘METFORMAX’:tn OR ‘METFORMIN’:tn OR ‘METFORMINA’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 92/368   ‘METFORMINE’:tn OR ‘METGLUCO’:tn OR ‘METIGUANIDE’:tn OR ‘METKLINE’:tn OR ‘METRION’:tn OR  ‘METTA’:tn OR ‘ -METFORMIN’:tn OR ‘NELBIS’:tn OR ‘NEO METFORMIN’:tn OR ‘NORFABEN M’:tn OR  ‘NOVO -METFORMIN’:tn OR ‘OBINESE’:tn OR ‘ORABET’:tn OR ‘PMS -METFORMIN’:tn OR ‘PREDIAL’:tn OR  ‘PRO-METFORMIN’:tn OR ‘RAN -METFORMIN’:tn OR ‘RATIO -METFORMIN’:tn OR ‘RIOMET’:tn OR ‘RIVA - METFORMIN’:tn OR ‘SIOFOR’:tn OR ‘STAGID’:tn OR ‘TRAJENTA DUO’:tn OR ‘TRAJENTAMET’:tn OR  ‘VELMETIA’:tn OR ‘XIGDUO’:tn OR ‘ZOMARIST’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   45. Lansoprazole   ‘LANSOPRAZOLE’ OR ‘LANSOPRAZOL’ OR ‘LANSOPRAZOLA’ OR ‘LANSOPRAZOLUM’ OR  ‘LANSOPRAZOLO’ OR ‘LANSÓPRAZÓLI’ OR  ‘LANSOPRATSOLIA’ OR ‘AGOPTON’:tn OR ‘ALEXIN’:tn OR  ‘APRADIL’:tn OR ‘DAKAR’:tn OR ‘DEXILANT’:tn OR ‘DEXILANZ’:tn OR ‘DEXLANSOPRAZOL’:tn OR  ‘DEXLANSOPRAZOLE’:tn OR ‘DEXLANSOPRAZOLO’:tn OR ‘DEXLANSOPRAZOLUM’:tn OR ‘DIASOLON’:tn  OR ‘DISPEPCI’:tn OR ‘DOSTAB FLAS’:tn OR ‘DOXATEC’:tn OR ‘DUOMATE FLAS’:tn OR ‘EMILLAN’:tn OR  ‘ERMES’:tn OR ‘ESTOMIL’:tn OR ‘ESTOMIL FLAS’:tn OR ‘EUGASTRAN’:tn OR ‘FRILANS’:tn OR  ‘GASTERIX’:tn OR ‘GASTREXÂ’:tn OR ‘GASTRIBIEN’:tn OR ‘GASTROLIBER’:tn OR ‘GERDIAN’:tn OR  ‘GLADEXA’:tn OR ‘GORDIAN’:tn OR ‘JACOPRAZOLE’:tn OR ‘KROVANEG’:tn OR ‘LANBAX’:tn OR  ‘LANCIPROL’:tn OR ‘LANOBAX’:tn OR ‘LANREC’:tn OR ‘LANSACID’:tn OR ‘LANSALE’:tn OR ‘LANSER’:tn  OR ‘LANSO’:tn OR ‘LANSOBENE’:tn OR ‘LANSOGAMMA’:tn OR ‘LANSOGEN’:tn OR ‘LANSOHEXAL’:tn OR  ‘LANSOLAJEN’:tn OR ‘LANSO’:tn OR ‘LANSOPRAM’:tn OR ‘LANSOPRAZOL’:tn OR ‘LANSOPRAZOLE’:tn  OR ‘LANSOPRAZOLO’:tn OR ‘LANSOPROL’:tn OR ‘LANSOPTOL’:tn OR ‘LANSOX’:tn OR ‘LANTIL’:tn OR  ‘LANVONE’:tn OR ‘LANZATOL’:tn OR ‘LANZO’:tn OR ‘LANZOGASTRO’:tn OR ‘LANZOL’:tn OR  ‘LANZOLE’:tn OR ‘LANZOPRAZOL’:tn OR ‘LANZOPRAZOLE’:tn OR ‘LANZOR’:tn OR ‘LANZOSTAD’:tn OR  ‘LANZUL’:tn OR ‘LAPOL 30’:tn OR ‘LARONA’:tn OR ‘LASOPROL’:tn OR ‘LAZOL’:tn OR ‘LEVANT’:tn OR  ‘LEVOGENIX’:tn OR ‘LIMPIDEX’:tn OR ‘LOMEVEL’:tn OR ‘LOVIDALIM’:tn OR ‘MONOLITUM’:tn OR  ‘NIXACID’:tn OR ‘NOVOPRAZ’:tn OR ‘OGAST’:tn OR ‘OGASTO’:tn OR ‘OGASTORO’:tn OR ‘OPIREN’:tn  OR ‘PAMPE’:tn OR ‘PEPTIREX’:tn OR ‘PERGASTID’:tn OR ‘PRALAZOL’:tn OR ‘PREZAL’:tn OR ‘PRO - ULCO’:tn OR ‘PROTONER’:tn OR ‘PROTONEXA’:tn OR ‘RAPILASOLE’:tn OR ‘RAZOLAGER’:tn OR  ‘REFLUXON’:tn OR ‘RENAZOL’:tn OR ‘ULCERTEC’:tn OR ‘ZALANZO’:tn OR ‘ZOLETAD’:tn OR  ‘ZOLPRALAN’:tn OR ‘ZOLT’:tn OR ‘ZOMEL’:tn OR ‘ZOTON’:tn OR ‘ZOTROLE’:tn OR ‘AGOPTON’:tn OR  ‘LANSOPRAZOLE’:tn OR ‘APRAZOL’:tn OR ‘DEXILANT’:tn OR ‘GASTREX’:tn OR ‘ILSATEC’:tn OR  ‘KAPIDEX’:tn OR ‘LANCAP’:tn OR ‘LANCID’:tn OR ‘LANSO’:tn OR ‘LANSOBENE’:tn OR ‘LANSOHEXAL’:tn  OR ‘LANSOLOC’:tn OR ‘LANSONE’:tn OR ‘LANSOPRAL’:tn OR ‘LANSOPRAZOL’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 93/368   ‘LANSOPRAZOLE’:tn OR ‘LANSOPROL’:tn OR ‘LANSOPTOL’:tn OR ‘LANSOR’:tn OR ‘LANSORAL’:tn OR  ‘LANSOX’:tn OR ‘LANTON’:tn OR ‘LANZ’:tn OR ‘LANZO’:tn OR ‘LANZOPRAL’:tn OR ‘LANZOR’:tn OR  ‘LANZUL’:tn OR ‘LANZUL S’:tn OR ‘LAPILORI’:tn OR ‘LAPRAZOL’:tn OR ‘LASOPRAN’:tn OR  ‘LASOPROL’:tn OR ‘LIMPIDEX’:tn OR ‘LOPRAL’:tn OR ‘OGAST’:tn OR ‘OGASTRO’:tn OR ‘PREVACID’:tn  OR ‘PREZAL’:tn OR ‘PROSOGAN’:tn OR ‘PROTONEXA’:tn OR ‘SOLOX’:tn OR ‘STANZOME’:tn OR  ‘TAIPROTON’:tn OR ‘TAKELDA’:tn OR ‘TAKEPRON’:tn OR ‘TAPIZOL’:tn OR ‘ZOLT’:tn OR ‘ZOMEL’:tn OR  ‘ZOPRAL’:tn OR ‘ZOTON’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   46. Fluoxetine   ‘FLUOXETINE’ OR ‘FLUOXETINA’ OR ‘FLUOXETIN’ OR ‘FLUOKSETINA’ OR ‘FLUOXETÍNU’ OR  ‘FLUOXETINĂ’ OR ‘FLUOXETINA’ OR ‘FLUOKSETIN’ OR ‘FLUOKSETINAS’ OR ‘FLUOXETINUM’ OR   ‘FLUOXETIN’ OR ‘FLUOKSETINA’ OR ‘FLUOXETIN’ OR ‘FLUOXETINUM’ OR ‘ADOFEN’:tn OR ‘AFEKSIN’:tn  OR ‘AFFEX’:tn OR ‘ANDEPIN’:tn OR ‘BELLZAC’:tn OR ‘BIOXETIN’:tn OR ‘BIOZAC’:tn OR ‘CLORIFLOX’:tn  OR ‘DAGRILAN’:tn OR ‘DEFLUOX’:tn OR ‘DEPREX’:tn OR ‘DEPREXETIN’:tn OR ‘DIESAN’:tn OR  ‘DIGASSIM’:tn OR ‘DINALEXIN’:tn OR ‘EXOSTREPT’:tn OR ‘FELICIUM’:tn OR ‘FLONITAL’:tn OR  ‘FLOTINA’:tn OR ‘FLOXET’:tn OR ‘FLUCTINE’:tn OR ‘FLUOKSETYNA EGIS EGIS’:tn OR ‘FLUOXEREN’:tn  OR ‘FLUOXETIN’:tn OR ‘FLUOXETINA’:tn OR ‘FLUOXETINE’:tn OR ‘FLUOXGAMMA’:tn OR  ‘FLUOXIBENE’:tn OR ‘FLUOXIN’:tn OR ‘FLUOXTAB’:tn OR ‘FLUSETIN’:tn OR ‘FLUSTAD’:tn OR  ‘FLUVAL’:tn OR ‘FLUX’:tn OR ‘FLUXEMED’:tn OR ‘FLUXET’:tn OR ‘FLUXIL’:tn OR ‘FLUZAC’:tn OR  ‘FLUZAK’:tn OR ‘FODISS’:tn OR ‘FONTEX’:tn OR ‘FRISETRO’:tn OR ‘GEROZAC’:tn OR ‘GRANEGIS’:tn OR  ‘LADOSE’:tn OR ‘LURAMON’:tn OR ‘MAGRILAN’:tn OR ‘MEROPAN’:tn OR ‘MUTAN’:tn OR ‘NYCOFLOX’:tn  OR ‘OLENA’:tn OR ‘OXACTIN’:tn OR ‘PLAZERON’:tn OR ‘PORTAL’:tn OR  ‘PRODUCTSHORTNAMETST4204’:tn OR ‘PROZAC’:tn OR ‘PROZAMEL’:tn OR ‘PROZEP’:tn OR ‘PROZIT’:tn  OR ‘PSIPAX’:tn OR ‘RENEURON’:tn OR ‘ROFLUXIN’:tn OR ‘SARTUZIN’:tn OR ‘SELECTUS’:tn OR  ‘SEROMEX’:tn OR ‘SERONIL’:tn OR ‘SOFELIN’:tn OR ‘STEPHADILAT -S’:tn OR ‘STRESSLESS’:tn OR  ‘THIRAMIL’:tn OR ‘XEREDIEN’:tn OR ‘ZINOVAT’:tn OR ‘AFFEX’:tn OR ‘ANIMEX -ON’:tn OR  ‘FLUOXETINE’:tn OR ‘DAFORIN’:tn OR ‘DEPRESS’:tn OR ‘DEPREX’:tn OR ‘DIESAN’:tn OR ‘EROCAP’:tn  OR ‘FLOXET’:tn OR ‘FLUCTIN’:tn OR ‘FLUCTINE’:tn OR ‘FLUDAC’:tn OR ‘FLUNEURIN’:tn OR  ‘FLUNISAN’:tn OR ‘FLUOCIM’:tn OR ‘FLUOX’:tn OR ‘FLUOXETIN’:tn OR ‘FLUOXETINA’:tn OR  ‘FLUOXETINE’:tn OR ‘FLUOXIBENE’:tn OR ‘FLUOXIN’:tn OR ‘FLUOXONE’:tn OR ‘FLUTIN’:tn OR  ‘FLUVAL’:tn OR ‘FLUX’:tn OR ‘FLUXET’:tn OR ‘FLUXETIN’:tn OR ‘FOXETIN’:tn OR ‘GENRX  FLUOXETINE’:tn OR ‘GEROZAC’:tn OR ‘HAPILUX’:tn OR ‘LADOSE’:tn OR ‘LORIEN’:tn OR ‘LOVAN’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 94/368   ‘NUZAK’:tn OR ‘PRIZMA’:tn OR ‘PRODEP’:tn OR ‘PROHEXAL’:tn OR ‘PROZAC’:tn OR ‘PROZEN’:tn OR  ‘RANFLOCS’:tn OR ‘RENEURON’:tn OR ‘REZAK’:tn OR ‘SALIPAX’:tn OR ‘SARAFEM’:tn OR ‘SERONIL’:tn  OR ‘VEROTINA’:tn OR ‘ZACTIN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   47. Tramadol   ‘TRAMADOL’ OR ‘TRAMADOLS’ OR ‘TRAMADOLIS’ OR ‘TRAMADOLUM’ OR ‘TRAMADOLI’ OR  ‘TRAMADOOL’ OR ‘ACEON’:tn OR ‘ADAMON’:tn OR ‘ADOLONTA’:tn OR ‘AMADOL’:tn OR ‘BIODALGIC’:tn  OR ‘BRIMISOL’:tn OR ‘BY -MADOL’:tn OR ‘CEPARIDIN’:tn OR ‘CONTRAMAL’:tn OR ‘CYKLOKAPRON’:tn  OR ‘DOLATRAMY’:tn OR ‘DOLATRAMYL’:tn OR ‘DOLOL’:tn OR ‘DOLPAR’:tn OR ‘DOLZAM’:tn OR  ‘FORTRADOL’:tn OR ‘GELOTRADOL’:tn OR ‘GELOTRALIB’:tn OR ‘GEMADOL’:tn OR ‘GEMADOL’:tn OR  ‘HEXAMADOL’:tn OR ‘K -ALMA’:tn OR ‘LANALGET’:tn OR ‘LARAPAM’:tn OR ‘LUMIDOL’:tn OR  ‘MABRON’:tn OR ‘MANDOLGIN’:tn OR ‘MANEO’:tn OR ‘MAROL’:tn OR ‘MAXITRAM S’:tn OR  ‘MONOALGIC’:tn OR ‘MONOCRIXO’:tn OR ‘NOAX’:tn OR ‘NOBLIGAN’:tn OR ‘OLDARAM’:tn OR  ‘OPIDOL’:tn OR ‘OROZAMUDOL’:tn OR ‘PAXILFAR’:tn OR ‘POLTRAM’:tn OR ‘PRONTALGIN’:tn OR  ‘PROTRADON’:tn OR ‘RALGEN’:tn OR ‘ROFY’:tn OR ‘ROFY’:tn OR ‘T -LONG’:tn OR ‘TADOL’:tn OR  ‘TAKADOL’:tn OR ‘THERADOL’:tn OR ‘TILODOL SR’:tn OR ‘TIONER’:tn OR ‘TIPAROL’:tn OR  ‘TOPALGIC’:tn OR ‘TORAM’:tn OR ‘TRADOL’:tn OR ‘TRADOLAN’:tn OR ‘TRADONAL’:tn OR ‘TRAFLASH’:tn  OR ‘TRALGIT’:tn OR ‘TRALODIE’:tn OR ‘TRAM -AC’:tn OR ‘TRAM -U-RON OD’:tn OR ‘TRAMA’:tn OR  ‘TRAMABENE’:tn OR ‘TRAMABETA LONG’:tn OR ‘TRAMACALM’:tn OR ‘TRAMACUR’:tn OR ‘TRAMADEX’:tn  OR ‘TRAMADIN’:tn OR ‘TRAMADOL’:tn OR ‘TRAMADOLHYDROCHLORID’:tn OR ‘TRAMADOLO’:tn OR  ‘TRAMADOLOR’:tn OR ‘TRAMADURA’:tn OR ‘TRAMAG 50’:tn OR ‘TRAMAGIT’:tn OR ‘TRAMAJUNA  DRUPPELS’:tn OR ‘TRAMAKE’:tn OR ‘TRAMAL’:tn OR ‘TRAMALGIC’:tn OR ‘TRAMALGIN’:tn OR  ‘TRAMALIN’:tn OR ‘TRAMAMED’:tn OR ‘TRAMAPINE’:tn OR ‘TRAMASTAD’:tn OR ‘TRAMBO’:tn OR  ‘TRAMELENE’:tn OR ‘TRAMIUM’:tn OR ‘TRAMQUEL’:tn OR ‘TRAMULIEF’:tn OR ‘TRAMUNDAL’:tn OR  ‘TRAMUNDIN’:tn OR ‘TRAMÓL -L’:tn OR ‘TRARET’:tn OR ‘TRAVEX’:tn OR ‘TRIDURAL’:tn OR ‘TROPIUM’:tn  OR ‘VIBRALIS’:tn OR ‘XYMEL’:tn OR ‘ZAMADOL’:tn OR ‘ZERIDAME’:tn OR ‘ZUMALGIC’:tn OR ‘ZYDOL’:tn  OR ‘ZYTRAM’:tn OR ‘ΤRΑΜΑL’:tn OR ‘ACEON’:tn OR ‘ADOLONTA’:tn OR ‘AMANDA’:tn OR  ‘CHLORHYDRATE TRAMADOL SOLYMES’:tn OR ‘CONTRAMAL’:tn OR ‘CONZIP’:tn OR ‘DOLOL’:tn OR  ‘DURELA’:tn OR ‘DUROTRAM’:tn OR ‘GA TRAMADOL’:tn OR ‘LUMIDOL’:tn OR ‘NOBLIGAN’:tn OR  ‘OPIDOL’:tn OR ‘PENGESIC’:tn OR ‘PRONTOFORT’:tn OR ‘RALIVIA’:tn OR ‘RAMADOL’:tn OR ‘RYBIX  ODT’:tn OR ‘RYZOLT’:tn OR ‘SYLADOR’:tn OR ‘TADOL’:tn OR ‘TASIDOL’:tn OR ‘THERATRAMADOL - 60’:tn OR ‘TIPAROL’:tn OR ‘TOPALGIC’:tn OR ‘TORAM’:tn OR ‘TRADOL’:tn OR ‘TRADOLAN’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 95/368   ‘TRADONAL’:tn OR ‘TRADOREC’:tn OR ‘TRALGIT’:tn OR ‘TRAMA’:tn OR ‘TRAMABENE’:tn OR  ‘TRAMACTIL UNO’:tn OR ‘TRAMADA’:tn OR ‘TRAMADEX’:tn OR ‘TRAMADIN’:tn OR ‘TRAMADOC’:tn OR  ‘TRAMADOL’:tn OR ‘TRAMADOL HELVEPHARM’:tn OR ‘TRAMADOLOR’:tn OR ‘TRAMAGIT’:tn OR  ‘TRAMAHEXAL’:tn OR ‘TRAMAL’:tn OR ‘TRAMAZAC’:tn OR ‘TRAMEDO’:tn OR ‘TRAMOLIN’:tn OR  ‘TRAMUNDIN’:tn OR ‘TRAVEX’:tn OR ‘TREXOL’:tn OR ‘TRIDURAL’:tn OR ‘ULTRAM’:tn OR ‘ZAMADOL’:tn  OR ‘ZAMUDOL’:tn OR ‘ZYDOL’:tn OR ‘ZYTRAM’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   48. Letrozole   ‘LETROZOLE’ OR ‘LETROZOL’ OR ‘LETROZOLU’ OR ‘LETROZOLUM’ OR ‘LETROZOLO’ OR ‘LETROZOL’ OR  ‘LÉTROZOLE’ OR ‘ALETRO’:tn OR ‘LETRO’:tn OR ‘LETROZOL’:tn OR ‘AROMED’:tn OR ‘AROMEK’:tn OR  ‘AVOMIT’:tn OR ‘CALANTHA’:tn OR ‘CLARZOLE’:tn OR ‘DEVAZOL’:tn OR ‘DRACENAX’:tn OR ‘EIRFEM’:tn  OR ‘ELOZORA’:tn OR ‘ETROZIN’:tn OR ‘ETRUZIL’:tn OR ‘FAMOS’:tn OR ‘FEMAPLEX’:tn OR ‘FEMAR’:tn  OR ‘FEMARA’:tn OR ‘FEMAZAC’:tn OR ‘FEMOZOL’:tn OR ‘FLORAZOLE’:tn OR ‘GALDAR’:tn OR  ‘LAMETTA’:tn OR ‘LENIZOL’:tn OR ‘LEONCON’:tn OR ‘LERANA’:tn OR ‘LESTARA’:tn OR ‘LET’:tn OR  ‘LETRALAN’:tn OR ‘LETRAXON’:tn OR ‘LETRAZAN’:tn OR ‘LETRILAN’:tn OR ‘LETRIX’:tn OR ‘LETRO - CELL’:tn OR ‘LETROAROM’:tn OR ‘LETROBLOCK’:tn OR ‘LETROCET’:tn OR ‘LETROFAM’:tn OR  ‘LETROFAR’:tn OR ‘LETROFEMIN’:tn OR ‘LETROFI’:tn OR ‘LETROGEN’:tn OR ‘LETROHEXAL’:tn OR  ‘LETROLAN’:tn OR ‘LETROMAL’:tn OR ‘LETROMAN’:tn OR ‘LETROMEDAC’:tn OR ‘LETROMEDICA’:tn OR  ‘LETROMYL’:tn OR ‘LETROPEN’:tn OR ‘LETROVENA’:tn OR ‘LETROVERES’:tn OR ‘LETROZAROM’:tn OR  ‘LETROZIN’:tn OR ‘LETROZOL’:tn OR ‘LETROZOLE’:tn OR ‘LETZO’:tn OR ‘LEZRA’:tn OR ‘LIKARDA’:tn  OR ‘LINOL’:tn OR ‘LOOSYN’:tn OR ‘LORTANDA’:tn OR ‘LOSTAR’:tn OR ‘LOTESTROL’:tn OR ‘LOXIFAN’:tn  OR ‘MAMIRA’:tn OR ‘MIONIC’:tn OR ‘NINIVET’:tn OR ‘ONCOZOL’:tn OR ‘PICOZETTE’:tn OR  ‘PICOZONE’:tn OR ‘RATROZ’:tn OR ‘RELIGAN’:tn OR ‘SILETRIS’:tn OR ‘STEFAPLEX’:tn OR  ‘SYMLETROL’:tn OR ‘TROZARA’:tn OR ‘TROZEL’:tn OR ‘VIOBREST’:tn OR ‘ZEQUIPRA’:tn OR  ‘ZOLTRON’:tn OR ‘ZOTROL’:tn OR ‘FEMAR’:tn OR ‘FEMARA’:tn OR ‘LETARIS’:tn OR ‘LETROZOL’:tn OR  ‘LETROZOLE’:tn OR ‘LOSTAR’:tn OR ‘LOXIFAN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 96/368   'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   49. Escitalopram   ‘ESCITALOPRAM’ OR ‘(S) -CITALOPRAM’ OR ‘ESCITALOPRAMU’ OR ‘ESCYTALOPRAM’ OR  ‘ESCITALOPRAM’ OR ‘ESCITALOPRĀMS’ OR ‘ESCITALOPRAMAS’ OR ‘ESCITALOPRAMUM’ OR  ‘ESSITALOPRAAMI’ OR ‘ESTSITALOPRAAM’ OR ‘ESCITALOPRAMUM’ OR ‘ACIPREX’:tn OR  ‘ADESCILAN’:tn OR ‘ALVOPLEX’:tn OR ‘ANAMIBA’:tn OR ‘ANISDIS’:tn OR ‘ANXILA’:tn OR  ‘ESCITALOPRAM’:tn OR ‘BENEL’:tn OR ‘BETESDA’:tn OR ‘CALOLEX’:tn OR ‘CALSTON’:tn OR  ‘CESOPIL’:tn OR ‘CIPRALEX’:tn OR ‘CIRASET’:tn OR ‘CITAFORT’:tn OR ‘CITRAPLAX’:tn OR  ‘CLOMENTIN’:tn OR ‘CONDRONAC’:tn OR ‘DEPART’:tn OR ‘DEPRALIN’:tn OR ‘DEPRESINAL’:tn OR  ‘DINOL’:tn OR ‘DIPREX’:tn OR ‘DISTESAP’:tn OR ‘ECYTARA’:tn OR ‘ELICEA’:tn OR ‘ENLIFT’:tn OR  ‘ENTACT’:tn OR ‘EQORES’:tn OR ‘ESCERTAL’:tn OR ‘ESCIDIVULE’:tn OR ‘ESCIGEN’:tn OR  ‘ESCINOBEL’:tn OR ‘ESCIPLEX’:tn OR ‘ESCIPRAM’:tn OR ‘ESCIPREX’:tn OR ‘ESCIRDEC DISTAB’:tn OR  ‘ESCIRDEC NEO’:tn OR ‘ESCITABURG’:tn OR ‘ESCITACTIL’:tn OR ‘ESCITAFEROLA’:tn OR ‘ESCITAL’:tn  OR ‘ESCITALEX’:tn OR ‘ESCITALON’:tn OR ‘ESCITALOPRA’:tn OR ‘ESCITALOPRAM’:tn OR  ‘ESCITALPRO’:tn OR ‘ESCITASAN’:tn OR ‘ESCITA’:tn OR ‘ESCITATRAFEL’:tn OR ‘ESCITIL’:tn OR  ‘ESCITOMAR’:tn OR ‘ESCITOTAB’:tn OR ‘ESCIVRIENS’:tn OR ‘ESERTIA’:tn OR ‘ESERTIAFLAS’:tn OR  ‘ESIGEFNA’:tn OR ‘ESIPRAL’:tn OR ‘ESLOREX’:tn OR ‘ESOPRAM’:tn OR ‘ESOPREX’:tn OR ‘ESPIRAL’:tn  OR ‘ESPOZA’:tn OR ‘ESSCITAXIN’:tn OR ‘ESSENTIAL’:tn OR ‘ESTAN’:tn OR ‘ETALOPRO’:tn OR  ‘ETALOPRO MELTS’:tn OR ‘EXCITA’:tn OR ‘EZTTAVIS’:tn OR ‘GENESCIT’:tn OR ‘GIACHELA’:tn OR  ‘HEIPRAM’:tn OR ‘ISOZYLORAM’:tn OR ‘ITAKEM’:tn OR ‘KITACI’:tn OR ‘LANOCIPRAM’:tn OR  ‘LENUXIN’:tn OR ‘LEXAPRO’:tn OR ‘LEXAPRO MELTZ’:tn OR ‘MENSORAM’:tn OR ‘MERSINOL’:tn OR  ‘MIRAKLIDE’:tn OR ‘MOZARIN’:tn OR ‘NEPANIL’:tn OR ‘NEXPRAM’:tn OR ‘NORESTAL’:tn OR ‘OROES’:tn  OR ‘OTIGEM’:tn OR ‘PRALEX’:tn OR ‘PRAMATIS’:tn OR ‘PREMALEX’:tn OR ‘PRILECT’:tn OR  ‘PURCEMA’:tn OR ‘RATICE’:tn OR ‘RELEFACT’:tn OR ‘RUALALIT’:tn OR ‘S -OROPRAM’:tn OR  ‘SAVANDRA’:tn OR ‘SCIPPA’:tn OR ‘SENTIPRA’:tn OR ‘SERODEPS’:tn OR ‘SEROPLEX’:tn OR  ‘SEROPLEXORO’:tn OR ‘SEROSYN’:tn OR ‘SERPENTIL’:tn OR ‘SERVENON’:tn OR ‘SIPRALEXA’:tn OR  ‘SIPRALEXORO’:tn OR ‘SITALOM’:tn OR ‘SOLATCIT’:tn OR ‘SOSECIT’:tn OR ‘SYMESCITAL’:tn OR  ‘TECLAVE’:tn OR ‘ZECIDEC’:tn OR ‘ZEPIRA’:tn OR ‘ZOCITAL’:tn OR ‘CIPRALEX’:tn OR ‘ELICEA’:tn OR  ‘ESCITALOPRAM’:tn OR ‘ESIPRAM’:tn OR ‘ESITALO’:tn OR ‘ESLOREX’:tn OR ‘ESOPREX’:tn OR  ‘ESPRAN’:tn OR ‘ESSENTIAL’:tn OR ‘ESTO (ESCITALOPRAM OXALATE)’:tn OR ‘ETALOKARE’:tn OR  ‘HEIPRAM’:tn OR ‘LEXAM’:tn OR ‘LEXAMIL’:tn OR ‘LEXAPRO’:tn OR ‘LOSIRAM’:tn OR ‘LOXALATE’:tn OR  ‘RECONTER’:tn OR ‘RELEFACT’:tn OR ‘SEROPLEX’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 97/368   'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   50. Esomeprazole   ‘ESOMEPRAZOLE’ OR ‘ESOMEPRAZOLA’ OR ‘EZOMEPRAZOLO’ OR ‘ESOMEPRAZOLUM’ OR  ‘ESOMEPRAZOL’ OR ‘ÉSOMÉPRAZOLE’ OR ‘ESOMEPRATSOLI’ OR ‘ESOMEPRASOOLI’ OR ‘ESOMEPRAZOL’  OR ‘ESOMEPRAZOL’ OR ‘ESOMEPRAZOL’ OR ‘ESOMEPRAZOLUM’ OR ‘ALMAGEL UNO’:tn OR  ‘AMORFISENA ESOMEPRATSOLIMAGNESIUMINA’:tn OR ‘ARILIAR’:tn OR ‘AZISTOP’:tn OR ‘BESORAL’:tn  OR ‘BESOROL’:tn OR ‘CHELIDES’:tn OR ‘COLLEZOES’:tn OR ‘CRAZOLUC’:tn OR ‘DEREFLIN’:tn OR  ‘DIGEN’:tn OR ‘DUROTIV’:tn OR ‘ELFIMEST’:tn OR ‘EMANERA’:tn OR ‘EMAZOL’:tn OR ‘EMAZOLE’:tn OR  ‘EMEPRADIS’:tn OR ‘EMOZUL’:tn OR ‘EMPERADIS’:tn OR ‘EPIVETIER’:tn OR ‘EPRAZOL’:tn OR  ‘ERADIZOL’:tn OR ‘ESACTIVE’:tn OR ‘ESAMAL’:tn OR ‘ESCADRA’:tn OR ‘ESLAVER’:tn OR ‘ESMARIN’:tn  OR ‘ESMEP’:tn OR ‘ESMERA’:tn OR ‘ESMEROL’:tn OR ‘ESMIN’:tn OR ‘ESOBAX’:tn OR ‘ESODEC’:tn OR  ‘ESODIM’:tn OR ‘ESOFAR’:tn OR ‘ESOGASEC’:tn OR ‘ESOLIB 40MG’:tn OR ‘ESOLIFA’:tn OR ‘ESOMEL’:tn  OR ‘ESOMEP’:tn OR ‘ESOMEPAZOLE’:tn OR ‘ESOMEPRAPHAR’:tn OR ‘ESOMEPRAZOL’:tn OR  ‘ESOMEPRAZOLE’:tn OR ‘ESOMEPRAZOLMAGNESIUM (AMORFT)’:tn OR ‘ESOMEPRAZOLO’:tn OR  ‘ESOMETORR’:tn OR ‘ESOMPEPRAZOL’:tn OR ‘ESOMPERAZOLE SWANPOND’:tn OR ‘ESOMPRAZOLE’:tn  OR ‘ESOPORT’:tn OR ‘ESOPRAL’:tn OR ‘ESOPRAX’:tn OR ‘ESORA’:tn OR ‘ESORIN’:tn OR ‘ESOTAR’:tn  OR ‘ESOVAN’:tn OR ‘ESPELA’:tn OR ‘ESPEYEN’:tn OR ‘ESPRAMAG’:tn OR ‘ESPRAZOX’:tn OR  ‘ESÓMEPRAZÓL’:tn OR ‘ETEFACIN’:tn OR ‘ETIZOL’:tn OR ‘EXIZOL’:tn OR ‘EZOCLIP’:tn OR  ‘EZOLODISA’:tn OR ‘EZOMEPRAZOLU’:tn OR ‘EZORAN’:tn OR ‘EZORET’:tn OR ‘FARAS’:tn OR  ‘FEPRASOL’:tn OR ‘GAZOLFAR’:tn OR ‘GELESOLE’:tn OR ‘HELICID NEO’:tn OR ‘HELIDES’:tn OR  ‘KIDDIR’:tn OR ‘LECOSYL’:tn OR ‘LOZAPREM’:tn OR ‘LUCEN’:tn OR ‘MACTADANYL’:tn OR  ‘MAPRESOL’:tn OR ‘MEPRANEX’:tn OR ‘MEPRASIG’:tn OR ‘MEPREZOR’:tn OR ‘MESOLTENE’:tn OR  ‘MESOPRAL’:tn OR ‘MESOPRIL’:tn OR ‘NEKFOLDYS’:tn OR ‘NEPRAMEL’:tn OR ‘NESOLEM’:tn OR  ‘NEXAZOLE’:tn OR ‘NEXFAR’:tn OR ‘NEXIMYL’:tn OR ‘NEXMEZOL’:tn OR ‘NEXPES’:tn OR ‘NILLAR’:tn OR  ‘NUCLAZOL’:tn OR ‘NUCLAZOX’:tn OR ‘OMYPREX’:tn OR ‘ORSCAT’:tn OR ‘PAMEZOL’:tn OR ‘PEROS’:tn  OR ‘PRAGASTROL’:tn OR ‘PRAZESPES’:tn OR ‘PRAZOFIX’:tn OR ‘PRAZOGENE’:tn OR ‘PRAZONEX’:tn OR  ‘PRAZOS’:tn OR ‘PRAZOTHY’:tn OR ‘PRECOLZAC’:tn OR ‘PROSPES’:tn OR ‘REFLUXEND’:tn OR  ‘REMESOLIN’:tn OR ‘RENANTOS ESOMEPRAZOL’:tn OR ‘SEMPRA’:tn OR ‘SEVAL’:tn OR ‘SOMEFAR’:tn  OR ‘SPEMEPROL’:tn OR ‘STOMEZUL’:tn OR ‘TEXIBAX’:tn OR ‘THEMOSPES’:tn OR ‘ULCEREX’:tn OR  ‘VENTRA’:tn OR ‘ZACOPERC’:tn OR ‘ZAROS’:tn OR ‘ZOLEPRIN’:tn OR ‘ZOLRIDA’:tn OR ‘ZOPRAME’:tn  OR ‘ZORUC’:tn OR ‘«ELCO -FREE»‘:tn OR ‘ESOMEPRAZOLE’:tn OR ‘ESOMAX’:tn OR ‘ESOMEP’:tn OR  ‘ESOMEPRAZOL’:tn OR ‘ESOMEX’:tn OR ‘INEXIUM’:tn OR ‘NEXIAM’:tn OR ‘NEXIAM IV’:tn OR  ‘NEXIUM’:tn OR ‘NEXMEZOL’:tn OR ‘RACIPER’:tn OR ‘ULCEREX’:tn OR ‘VIMOVO’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 98/368   terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   51. Bicalutamide   ‘BICALUTAMIDE’ OR ‘BIKALUTAMID’ OR ‘BIKALUTAMIDU’ OR ‘BICATULAMIDĂ’ OR ‘BICALUTAMIDA’ OR  ‘BIKALUTAMĪDS’ OR ‘BIKALUTAMIDAS’ OR ‘BICALUTAMIDUM’ OR ‘BICALUTAMIDE’ OR  ‘DÉCHALÚTAIMÍD’ OR ‘BIKALUTAMIDI’ OR ‘BIKALUTAMIID’ OR ‘BICALUTAMIDUM’ OR ‘ANDROBLOC’:tn  OR ‘ANDROCAL’:tn OR ‘BICALUTAMID’:tn OR ‘BICA -Q’:tn OR ‘BICACEL’:tn OR ‘BICACTA’:tn OR  ‘BICADEX’:tn OR ‘BICALODEX’:tn OR ‘BICALUPLEX’:tn OR ‘BICALUSTAD’:tn OR ‘BICALUT’:tn OR  ‘BICALUTAGEN’:tn OR ‘BICALUTAMID’:tn OR ‘BICALUTAMID -’:tn OR ‘BICALUTAMIDA’:tn OR  ‘BICALUTAMIDA’:tn OR ‘BICALUTAMIDE’:tn OR ‘BICALUTAMIDE, ALMUS BICALUTAMIDE’:tn OR  ‘BICALUTAMIDE -’:tn OR ‘BICALUTAMIDĂ’:tn OR ‘BICALUTANORM’:tn OR ‘BICALUTATAM’:tn OR  ‘BICALUTIN’:tn OR ‘BICAMED’:tn OR ‘BICAMIDE’:tn OR ‘BICAPROL’:tn OR ‘BICAPROX’:tn OR  ‘BICARBEX’:tn OR ‘BICATIN’:tn OR ‘BICAVAN’:tn OR ‘BICKAM’:tn OR ‘BICLUTIDE’:tn OR ‘BICTAMID’:tn  OR ‘BICUSAN’:tn OR ‘BIKADER’:tn OR ‘BIKALARD’:tn OR ‘BIKALEN’:tn OR ‘BIKALIS’:tn OR  ‘BILUDEX’:tn OR ‘BILUMID’:tn OR ‘BILUMIDE’:tn OR ‘BILURON’:tn OR ‘BILUTA’:tn OR ‘BILUTAMID’:tn  OR ‘BINABIC’:tn OR ‘BJORGEINA’:tn OR ‘BRECTASA’:tn OR ‘CALUMID’:tn OR ‘CAPRO’:tn OR  ‘CASOMIDE’:tn OR ‘ENCALOR’:tn OR ‘EUROBICALUTAMID’:tn OR ‘IGREDEX’:tn OR ‘KALUFAR’:tn OR  ‘LANBICA’:tn OR ‘LUTAMID’:tn OR ‘LUTRAK’:tn OR ‘OMIDEX’:tn OR ‘PENCIAL’:tn OR ‘PRAXIS’:tn OR  ‘PROBIC’:tn OR ‘PROBICON’:tn OR ‘PROCADEX’:tn OR ‘PROCURE’:tn OR ‘RIBOCADEX’:tn OR  ‘SAFEDEX’:tn OR ‘SATREXEM’:tn OR ‘SAVEPROST’:tn OR ‘SKYLUTAMIDE’:tn OR ‘TICAL’:tn OR  ‘TOSADEX’:tn OR ‘VERODEX’:tn OR ‘WIBICAL’:tn OR ‘YONISTIB’:tn OR ‘ZARMOL’:tn OR ‘BICALUTAMID - MEPHA’:tn OR ‘BICALUTAMIDE’:tn OR ‘BICALUTIN’:tn OR ‘CALUTEX’:tn OR ‘CALUTOL’:tn OR  ‘CASODEX’:tn OR ‘COSUDEX’:tn OR ‘GEPEPROSTIN’:tn OR ‘BICALUTAMIDE’:tn OR ‘PRAXIS’:tn OR  ‘BICALUTAMIDE’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR  'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 99/368   OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   52. Gabapentin   ‘GABAPENTIN’ OR ‘GABAPENTINA’ OR ‘GABAPENTÍN’ OR ‘GABAPENTINĂ’ OR ‘GABAPENTINA’ OR  ‘GABAPENTYNA’ OR ‘GABAPENTINO’ OR ‘GABAPENTINUM’ OR ‘GABAPENTINT’ OR ‘GABAPENTINE’ OR  ‘GABAPENTIINIA’ OR ‘GABAPENTIINI’ OR ‘GABAPENTINUM’ OR ‘APENTIN’:tn OR ‘BRILIAN’:tn OR  ‘CENEGAB’:tn OR ‘CENESID’:tn OR ‘GABACT’:tn OR ‘GABAGAMMA’:tn OR ‘GABAHUM’:tn OR  ‘GABALEPT’:tn OR ‘GABALIX’:tn OR ‘GABAMED’:tn OR ‘GABANEURAL’:tn OR ‘GABANOX’:tn OR  ‘GABANTIN’:tn OR ‘GABAPEN’:tn OR ‘GABAPENTIN’:tn OR ‘GABAPENTIN -BIOMO’:tn OR ‘GABAPENTIN - ’:tn OR ‘GABAPENTINA’:tn OR ‘GABAPENTINE’:tn OR ‘GABARAN’:tn OR ‘GABARATIO’:tn OR  ‘GABARONT’:tn OR ‘GABASTAD’:tn OR ‘GABATAL’:tn OR ‘GABATIFIN’:tn OR ‘GABATOR’:tn OR  ‘GABAX’:tn OR ‘GABENIL’:tn OR ‘GABENTAL’:tn OR ‘GABIN’:tn OR ‘GABITON’:tn OR ‘GABPENTINA’:tn  OR ‘GABRION’:tn OR ‘GABTURE’:tn OR ‘GATIRABAN’:tn OR ‘GATONIN’:tn OR ‘GORDIUS’:tn OR  ‘GRIMODIN’:tn OR ‘KENEIL’:tn OR ‘MEDIVAPOM’:tn OR ‘NETIN’:tn OR ‘NEURAN’:tn OR ‘NEURONTIN’:tn  OR ‘NEUROS’:tn OR ‘NEUROSTIL’:tn OR ‘PENTAGAB’:tn OR ‘PENTIN’:tn OR ‘PERONTEN’:tn OR  ‘SYMLEPTIC’:tn OR ‘GAB’:tn OR ‘GABAPENTIN’:tn OR ‘EPLEPTIN’:tn OR ‘GABANEURAL’:tn OR  ‘GABANEURIN’:tn OR ‘GABANTIN’:tn OR ‘GABAPEN’:tn OR ‘GABAPENTIN -MEPHA’:tn OR  ‘GABAPENTINA’:tn OR ‘GABAPENTINE’:tn OR ‘GABATINE’:tn OR ‘GABEXAL’:tn OR ‘GABEXINE’:tn OR  ‘GABTIN’:tn OR ‘GANTIN’:tn OR ‘GRALISE’:tn OR ‘HORIZANT’:tn OR ‘ -GABAPENTIN’:tn OR ‘NETIN’:tn  OR ‘NEURIL’:tn OR ‘NEURONTIN’:tn OR ‘NEUROSTIL’:tn OR ‘NUPENTIN’:tn OR ‘GABAPENTIN’:tn OR  ‘GABAPENTIN’:tn OR ‘ -GABAPENTIN’:tn OR ‘WINTHROP’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   53. Fentanyl   ‘FENTANYL’ OR ‘FENTANIL’ OR ‘FENTANILA’ OR ‘FENTANILO’ OR ‘FENTANYLU’ OR ‘FENTANILS’ OR  ‘FENTANYLUM’ OR ‘FENTANILT’ OR ‘FENTANILA’ OR ‘FENTANYLU’ OR ‘FENTANYLUM’ OR ‘ABSTRAL’:tn  OR ‘ACTIQ’:tn OR ‘ADOLOR’:tn OR ‘ALGHEDON’:tn OR ‘ALGOGESIC’:tn OR ‘APACS’:tn OR ‘ARDICAT’:tn  OR ‘AVARIC’:tn OR ‘BONAMATRIX’:tn OR ‘BREAKYL’:tn OR ‘BUFYL’:tn OR ‘BUPIVACAINE  HYDROCHLORIDE’:tn OR ‘BUQUEL’:tn OR ‘DEMOGYL’:tn OR ‘DOLFEN’:tn OR ‘DOLFORIN’:tn OR  ‘DUROGESIC’:tn OR ‘EFFENTORA’:tn OR ‘EPUFEN’:tn OR ‘FENCINO’:tn OR ‘FENDIVIA’:tn OR  ‘FENPATCH’:tn OR ‘FENTA’:tn OR ‘FENTACAN’:tn OR ‘FENTADOLON’:tn OR ‘FENTADUR’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 100/368   ‘FENTAGESIC’:tn OR ‘FENTAL MATRIX’:tn OR ‘FENTALGON’:tn OR ‘FENTALIS’:tn OR ‘FENTAMAT’:tn OR  ‘FENTAMED’:tn OR ‘FENTAMEDICA MATRIX’:tn OR ‘FENTANEST’:tn OR ‘FENTANYL’:tn OR ‘FENTANYL - CT’:tn OR ‘FENTANYL -’:tn OR ‘FENTANYL -’:tn OR ‘FENTAPATCHMATRIX’:tn OR ‘FENTAPLAST’:tn OR  ‘FENTAPON’:tn OR ‘FENTARICHTEX’:tn OR ‘FENTASUB’:tn OR ‘FENTAVERA’:tn OR ‘FENTELENE’:tn OR  ‘FENTICER’:tn OR ‘FENTORIL’:tn OR ‘FENTORON’:tn OR ‘FENVEL’:tn OR ‘FENYLAT’:tn OR ‘FETANEX’:tn  OR ‘HALDID’:tn OR ‘INSTANYL’:tn OR ‘LAFENE’:tn OR ‘LAVIFENT’:tn OR ‘LEFEN’:tn OR ‘LEPTANAL’:tn  OR ‘LUNALDIN’:tn OR ‘MATRIFEN’:tn OR ‘MATRIMED’:tn OR ‘MEZOLAR MATRIX’:tn OR ‘MYLAFENT’:tn  OR ‘NILFENE’:tn OR ‘NYLAFENT’:tn OR ‘OPIODUR’:tn OR ‘OSMACH’:tn OR ‘OSMANIL’:tn OR  ‘PECFENT’:tn OR ‘QUATROFEN’:tn OR ‘RECIVIT’:tn OR ‘SUBLIMAZE’:tn OR ‘TILOFYL’:tn OR  ‘VELLOFENT’:tn OR ‘VICTANYL’:tn OR ‘YEMEX’:tn OR ‘ABSTRAL’:tn OR ‘ACTIQ’:tn OR ‘DENPAX’:tn OR  ‘DURAGESIC’:tn OR ‘DURAGESIC -12’:tn OR ‘DUROGESIC’:tn OR ‘DUROTEP MT’:tn OR ‘E -FEN’:tn OR  ‘EFFENTORA’:tn OR ‘FENDIVIA’:tn OR ‘FENTA’:tn OR ‘FENTANEST’:tn OR ‘FENTANIL’:tn OR ‘FENTANYL’   OR ‘FENTORA’:tn OR ‘FENTOS’:tn OR ‘HALDID’:tn OR ‘LAZANDA’:tn OR ‘MARCAIN WITH FENTANYL’:tn  OR ‘MATRIFEN’:tn OR ‘ONEDURO’:tn OR ‘ONSOLIS’:tn OR ‘PECFENT’:tn OR ‘SINTENYL’:tn OR  ‘SUBLIMAZE’:tn OR ‘SUBSYS’:tn OR ‘TROFENTYL’:tn OR ‘VICTANYL’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   54. Quetiapine   ‘QUETIAPINE’ OR ‘QUETIAPIN’ OR ‘KVETIAPIN’ OR ‘KVETIAPÍN’ OR ‘QUETIAPINĂ’ OR ‘QUETIAPINA’ OR  ‘KWETIAPINA’ OR ‘KVETIAPĪNS’ OR ‘KVETIAPINAS’ OR ‘QUETIAPINUM’ OR ‘KETIAPIN’ OR ‘KETIAPIN’  OR ‘CUETIAPÉIN’ OR ‘QUÉTIAPINE’ OR ‘KETIAPIINI’ OR ‘KVETIAPIIN’ OR ‘QUETIAPINA’ OR  ‘ALAQUET’:tn OR ‘QUETIAPIN’:tn OR ‘APOTIAPINA’:tn OR ‘ATROLAK’:tn OR ‘BIQUELLE’:tn OR  ‘BIQUETAN’:tn OR ‘BONOGREN’:tn OR ‘CENTROQUEEN’:tn OR ‘DERIN’:tn OR ‘EBESQUE XL’:tn OR  ‘EQUETA’:tn OR ‘ETIAGEN’:tn OR ‘ETIAPIN’:tn OR ‘EUFRENIN’:tn OR ‘FREQUET’:tn OR ‘GEROQUEL’:tn  OR ‘HEDONIN’:tn OR ‘KATHIRA’:tn OR ‘KEFRENEX’:tn OR ‘KETILEPT’:tn OR ‘KETIPINE’:tn OR  ‘KETIPINOR’:tn OR ‘KETIRON’:tn OR ‘KETIVASTIN’:tn OR ‘KETREL’:tn OR ‘KOSTO’:tn OR ‘KVEBON’:tn  OR ‘KVELUX’:tn OR ‘KVENTIAX’:tn OR ‘KWETAPLEX’:tn OR ‘KWETAX’:tn OR ‘LOQUEN’:tn OR  ‘QUETIAPINE’:tn OR ‘MINTRELEQ’:tn OR ‘NANTARID’:tn OR ‘NOTIABOLFEN’:tn OR ‘PINEXET’:tn OR  ‘PINEXET SR’:tn OR ‘PREFALDUR XL’:tn OR ‘PSICOTRIC’:tn OR ‘PSICOTRIC PROLONG’:tn OR ‘Q  MIND’:tn OR ‘Q -PIN’:tn OR ‘QUAETIAPINE’:tn OR ‘QUDIX’:tn OR ‘QUELAN’:tn OR ‘QUELAPIN’:tn OR  ‘QUELENTO’:tn OR ‘QUENTAPIL’:tn OR ‘QUENTAXIN SR’:tn OR ‘QUENTIAPINA TAD’:tn OR  ‘QUENTIAX’:tn OR ‘QUEPIN’:tn OR ‘QUERSUS’:tn OR ‘QUESERY XL’:tn OR ‘QUESIG’:tn OR  ‘QUESTAX’:tn OR ‘QUETASTAD’:tn OR ‘QUETEX’:tn OR ‘QUETIAFAIR’:tn OR ‘QUETIAFAIR 4 -DAAGSE     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 101/368   STARTVERPAKKING’:tn OR ‘QUETIALAN’:tn OR ‘QUETIAPIN’:tn OR ‘QUETIAPIN -CT’:tn OR ‘QUETIAPIN - Q’:tn OR ‘QUETIAPIN -’:tn OR ‘QUETIAPINA’:tn OR ‘QUETIAPINE’:tn OR ‘QUETIAPINE -’:tn OR  ‘QUETIAPINE/ XR’:tn OR ‘QUETIAPINĂ’:tn OR ‘QUETIREL’:tn OR ‘QUETROP’:tn OR ‘QUETTOR’:tn OR  ‘REGIOQUEPIN’:tn OR ‘ROCOZ’:tn OR ‘SARPARM XL’:tn OR ‘SEOTIAPIM XL’:tn OR ‘SERESANO’:tn OR  ‘SEROPIA’:tn OR ‘SEROPIN’:tn OR ‘SEROQUEL’:tn OR ‘SEROTIAPIN’:tn OR ‘SETININ’:tn OR ‘SOFREL’:tn  OR ‘SONDATE XL’:tn OR ‘STADAQUEL’:tn OR ‘STADAQUEL STARTER’:tn OR ‘SYMQUEL XR’:tn OR  ‘TENPROLIDE’:tn OR ‘QUEL’:tn OR ‘TIAQUEL’:tn OR ‘TIAQUIN’:tn OR ‘TOMEL’:tn OR ‘TREKSTA’:tn OR  ‘VIKETO’:tn OR ‘VYNTERSKARUM’:tn OR ‘XATIN’:tn OR ‘ZALURON XL’:tn OR ‘QUETIAPINE’:tn OR ‘CO - QUETIAPINE’:tn OR ‘KETILEPT’:tn OR ‘KVENTIAX’:tn OR ‘PRO -QUETIAPINE’:tn OR ‘QUEROK’:tn OR  ‘QUETIALAN’:tn OR ‘QUETIAPIN’:tn OR ‘QUETIAPINE’:tn OR ‘QUETIN’:tn OR ‘QUETROS’:tn OR ‘RATIO - QUETIAPINE’:tn OR ‘SEQUASE’:tn OR ‘SEROQUEL’:tn OR ‘SEROQUEL’:tn OR ‘SYQUET’:tn OR  ‘QUETIAPINE’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR  'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   55. Cefuroxime   ‘CEFUROXIME’ OR ‘CEFUROKSIM’ OR ‘CEFUROXIM’ OR ‘CEFUROXIMA’ OR ‘CEFUROXIMUM’ OR  ‘CEFUROKSIMAS’ OR ‘CEFUROKSIM’ OR ‘CEFUROKSIM’ OR ‘ANAPTIVAΝ’:tn OR ‘ANTIBIOXIME’:tn OR  ‘APROK’:tn OR ‘APROKAM’:tn OR ‘AXETINE’:tn OR ‘AXYCEF’:tn OR ‘BELOXIM’:tn OR ‘BIOFUROKSYM’:tn  OR ‘BIORACEF’:tn OR ‘CEFTAL’:tn OR ‘CEFUDOC’:tn OR ‘CEFUDURA’:tn OR ‘CEFUHEXAL’:tn OR  ‘CEFURAX’:tn OR ‘CEFURETIL’:tn OR ‘CEFUROKSIM AGOMED’:tn OR ‘CEFUROKSIM ALKALOID -INT’:tn  OR ‘CEFUROKSIM’:tn OR ‘CEFUROKSYM HOSPIRA’:tn OR ‘CEFUROPROL’:tn OR ‘CEFUROX’:tn OR  ‘CEFUROX BASICS’:tn OR ‘CEFUROXIM’:tn OR ‘CEFUROXIMA’:tn OR ‘CEFUROXIMAXETIL’:tn OR  ‘CEFUROXIME’:tn OR ‘CEFUROXIMNATRIUM’:tn OR ‘CEFUROXIMĂ MIP’:tn OR ‘CEFUR 1500 MG/VIAL’:tn  OR ‘CEFUR 750 MG/VIAL’:tn OR ‘CEROXIM’:tn OR ‘CFAX -B’:tn OR ‘CFAX -T’:tn OR ‘CFAX -U’:tn OR  ‘CFAX -V’:tn OR ‘CFAX -W’:tn OR ‘CFAX -X’:tn OR ‘CFAX -Y’:tn OR ‘CUROCEF’:tn OR ‘CUROXIM’:tn OR  ‘DELAMET’:tn OR ‘EFOX’:tn OR ‘ELOBACT’:tn OR ‘FEACEF’:tn OR ‘FREDYR’:tn OR ‘FUREXA’:tn OR  ‘GALEMIN’:tn OR ‘INTERBION’:tn OR ‘KEFUROX’:tn OR ‘KETOCEF’:tn OR ‘LIFUROX’:tn OR  ‘LIROKORPI’:tn OR ‘LYPROVIR’:tn OR ‘MEDOXEM’:tn OR ‘MEDOXIN’:tn OR ‘MONACEF’:tn OR  ‘NELABOCIN’:tn OR ‘NIPOGALIN’:tn OR ‘NORMAFENAC’:tn OR ‘NOVOCEF’:tn OR ‘ORAXIM’:tn OR  ‘PROKAM’:tn OR ‘SAXETIL’:tn OR ‘SEDOPAN’:tn OR ‘SUPERO’:tn OR ‘TACEFUR, 250 MG’:tn OR  ‘TACEFUR, 500 MG’:tn OR ‘TARSIME’:tn OR ‘TERCEF’:tn OR ‘TILEXIM’:tn OR ‘VEKFAZOLIN’:tn OR  ‘XELACEF’:tn OR ‘XORIM’:tn OR ‘XORIMAX’:tn OR ‘YOKEL’:tn OR ‘ZAMUR’:tn OR ‘ZETAGAL’:tn OR  ‘ZILISTEN’:tn OR ‘ZINACEF’:tn OR ‘ZINADOL’:tn OR ‘ZINATAN’:tn OR ‘ZINNAT’:tn OR ‘ZINOXX’:tn OR  ‘ZIPOS’:tn OR ‘ZOREF’:tn OR ‘AKSEF’:tn OR ‘ALTACEF’:tn OR ‘APROKAM’:tn OR ‘AXETINE’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 102/368   ‘BEARCEF’:tn OR ‘CEFABIOT’:tn OR ‘CEFTIN’:tn OR ‘CEFURIM ECO’:tn OR ‘CEFURIN’:tn OR  ‘CEFUROX’:tn OR ‘CEFUROXIM’:tn OR ‘CEFUROXIME’:tn OR ‘CEROXIM’:tn OR ‘CEROXIME’:tn OR  ‘CUROCEF’:tn OR ‘FAMICEF’:tn OR ‘KEFOX’:tn OR ‘KEFSTAR’:tn OR ‘KEFUROX’:tn OR ‘LIFUROX’:tn OR  ‘MONACEF’:tn OR ‘ORAXIM’:tn OR ‘TERCEF’:tn OR ‘TILEXIM’:tn OR ‘XORIMAX’:tn OR ‘ZINACEF’:tn OR  ‘ZINADOL’:tn OR ‘ZINAT’:tn OR ‘ZINNAT’:tn OR ‘ZOCEF’:tn OR ‘ZOREF’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   56. Paroxetine   ‘PAROXETINE’ OR ‘PAROXETÍN’ OR ‘PAROXETÍNU’ OR ‘PAROXETINĂ’ OR ‘PAROXETINA’ OR  ‘PAROXETINE’ OR ‘PAROKSETINS’ OR ‘PAROKSETINAS’ OR ‘PAROXETINUM’ OR ‘PAROKSETIN’ OR  ‘PAROXÉTINE’ OR ‘PAROKSETIIN’ OR ‘PAROXETINA’ OR ‘PAROXETIN’ OR ‘PAROXETINUM’ OR  ‘AFENTRAL’:tn OR ‘PAROX’:tn OR ‘APODEPI’:tn OR ‘ARKETIS’:tn OR ‘DAPAGUT’:tn OR ‘DAPAROX’:tn OR  ‘DEPROZEL’:tn OR ‘DEROXAT’:tn OR ‘DIVARIUS’:tn OR ‘DROPAX’:tn OR ‘DROPAXIN’:tn OR ‘ENNOS’:tn  OR ‘EUPLIX’:tn OR ‘EUTIMIL’:tn OR ‘FROSINOR’:tn OR ‘MELOXAT’:tn OR ‘MOTIVAN’:tn OR ‘OPTIPAR’:tn  OR ‘PALUXETIL’:tn OR ‘PALUXON’:tn OR ‘PARETIN’:tn OR ‘PAROC’:tn OR ‘PAROCETAN’:tn OR  ‘PAROGEN’:tn OR ‘PAROKSETIN’:tn OR ‘PAROLET’:tn OR ‘PAROLEX’:tn OR ‘PAROLICH’:tn OR  ‘PAROSER’:tn OR ‘PAROX’:tn OR ‘PAROXALON’:tn OR ‘PAROXAT’:tn OR ‘PAROXEDURA’:tn OR  ‘PAROXEGEN’:tn OR ‘PAROXETINA’:tn OR ‘PAROXETINA -’:tn OR ‘PAROXETINE’:tn OR ‘PAROXIA’:tn OR  ‘PAROXIFLEX’:tn OR ‘PAROXIN’:tn OR ‘PAROXINOR’:tn OR ‘PAROXISTAD’:tn OR ‘PASOREX’:tn OR  ‘PAXETIL’:tn OR ‘PAXETIN’:tn OR ‘PAXTIN’:tn OR ‘PREXAT’:tn OR ‘REMOOD’:tn OR ‘REXETIN’:tn OR  ‘SERESTILL’:tn OR ‘SEREUPIN’:tn OR ‘SEROXAT’:tn OR ‘SOLBEN’:tn OR ‘STILIDEN’:tn OR  ‘SYNTOPAR’:tn OR ‘TABERIL’:tn OR ‘VOLTAK’:tn OR ‘XETIN’:tn OR ‘ZANOXINA’:tn OR ‘ZURIA’:tn OR  ‘СЕРОКСАТ’:tn OR ‘PAROXETINE’:tn OR ‘ARAPAXEL’:tn OR ‘AROPAX’:tn OR ‘BENEPAX’:tn OR  ‘CEBRILIN’:tn OR ‘DAPAROX’:tn OR ‘DEPAROC’:tn OR ‘DEPAXAN’:tn OR ‘DEPROZEL’:tn OR  ‘DEROXAT’:tn OR ‘DIVARIUS’:tn OR ‘DOM -PAROXETINE’:tn OR ‘EXTINE’:tn OR ‘FROSINOR’:tn OR  ‘MEPLAR’:tn OR ‘MOTIVAN’:tn OR ‘OXETINE’:tn OR ‘PAROCETAN’:tn OR ‘PARONEX’:tn OR ‘PAROXAT’:tn  OR ‘PAROXEDURA’:tn OR ‘PAROXETIN’:tn OR ‘PAROXETIN -MEPHA’:tn OR ‘PAROXETINA’:tn OR  ‘PAROXETINE’:tn OR ‘PAXERA’:tn OR ‘PAXETIL’:tn OR ‘PAXIL’:tn OR ‘PAXTINE’:tn OR ‘PAXTRAT’:tn OR  ‘PAXXET’:tn OR ‘PAXYL’:tn OR ‘PEXEVA’:tn OR ‘PONDERA’:tn OR ‘RATIO -PAROXETINE’:tn OR  ‘REXETIN’:tn OR ‘RIVA -PAROXETINE’:tn OR ‘SEROXAT’:tn OR ‘TAGONIS’:tn OR ‘ -PAROXETINE’:tn OR  ‘XERENEX’:tn OR ‘XETANOR’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 103/368   abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   57. Enalapril   ‘ENALAPRIL’ OR ‘ENALAPRIL’ OR ‘ENALAPRILUM’ OR ‘ÉNALAPRIL’ OR ‘ENALAPRIIL’ OR ‘ENALAPRIL’ OR  ‘ANALEPT’:tn OR ‘ANTIPREX’:tn OR ‘ENALAPRIL’:tn OR ‘ATOVER’:tn OR ‘BARIPRIL’:tn OR  ‘BAROPRINE’:tn OR ‘BENALAPRIL’:tn OR ‘BERLIPRIL’:tn OR ‘CENIPRES’:tn OR ‘CETAMPRIL’:tn OR  ‘CONVERTEN’:tn OR ‘CORIPREN’:tn OR ‘CORODIL’:tn OR ‘CORVO’:tn OR ‘CRINOREN’:tn OR  ‘DABONAL’:tn OR ‘DAREN’:tn OR ‘EDNYT’:tn OR ‘ELERNAP’:tn OR ‘ELYRNO’:tn OR ‘ENA’:tn OR  ‘ENAC’:tn OR ‘ENACARD, ENALAPRIL MALEATE’:tn OR ‘ENACARD,ENALAPRIL MALEATE’:tn OR  ‘ENACODAN’:tn OR ‘ENAHEXAL I.V.’:tn OR ‘ENALAGAMMA’:tn OR ‘ENALAGEN’:tn OR  ‘ENALAPRII/LERCANIDIPIN KRKA’:tn OR ‘ENALAPRIL’:tn OR ‘ENALAPRIL -CORAX’:tn OR  ‘ENALAPRIL/LERCANIDIPIN KRKA’:tn OR ‘ENALAPRIL/LERCANIDIPINE KRKA’:tn OR  ‘ENALAPRIL/LERCANIDIPINO KRKA’:tn OR ‘ENALAPRILMALEAT ARCANA’:tn OR ‘ENAP’:tn OR  ‘ENAPREN’:tn OR ‘ENAPRESS’:tn OR ‘ENAPRIL’:tn OR ‘ENAPRIL HEXAL  AG’:tn OR ‘ENARENAL’:tn OR  ‘ENEAS’:tn OR ‘ENIT’:tn OR ‘HIPOARTEL’:tn OR ‘IECATEC’:tn OR ‘INNOVACE’:tn OR ‘ISTOPRIL’:tn OR  ‘JUTAXAN’:tn OR ‘KAPARLON -S’:tn OR ‘KORANDIL’:tn OR ‘LERCANIL’:tn OR ‘LERCANILACE’:tn OR  ‘LERCAPIN’:tn OR ‘LERCAPREL’:tn OR ‘LERCAPRESS’:tn OR ‘LERCAPRESSECOMB’:tn OR ‘LERCAPRIL’:tn  OR ‘LERCARIL’:tn OR ‘LERTEC’:tn OR ‘LINATIL’:tn OR ‘LINATILSAN’:tn OR ‘MALEATO DE ENALAPRIL’:tn  OR ‘MEPRIL’:tn OR ‘NAPRILENE’:tn OR ‘OLINAPRIL’:tn OR ‘OLIVIN’:tn OR ‘PRILAN’:tn OR ‘RENAPRIL’:tn  OR ‘RENIL’:tn OR ‘RENISTAD’:tn OR ‘RENOVIA ACE’:tn OR ‘SILVERIT’:tn OR ‘TENSAZOL’:tn OR  ‘VASOPREN’:tn OR ‘VIPRES’:tn OR ‘XANEF’:tn OR ‘ZANERIL’:tn OR ‘ZANEXTRA’:tn OR ‘ZANICOMBO’:tn  OR ‘ZANIPRESS’:tn OR ‘ZANIPRIL’:tn OR ‘ZANITEK’:tn OR ‘ACEPRIL’:tn OR ‘ACETEC’:tn OR  ‘ALAPREN’:tn OR ‘ALPHAPRIL’:tn OR ‘AMPRACE’:tn OR ‘ANAPRIL’:tn OR ‘ANGIOTEC’:tn OR  ‘ENALAPRIL’:tn OR ‘AUSPRIL’:tn OR ‘BENALAPRIL’:tn OR ‘BERLIPRIL’:tn OR ‘BITENSIL’:tn OR  ‘CALNATE’:tn OR ‘CINBENON’:tn OR ‘CIPLATEC’:tn OR ‘CONVERTEN’:tn OR ‘CONVERTIN’:tn OR  ‘CORODIL’:tn OR ‘DAREN’:tn OR ‘DENAPRIL’:tn OR ‘EDNYT’:tn OR ‘ENAC’:tn OR ‘ENACE’:tn OR  ‘ENAL’:tn OR ‘ENALABAL’:tn OR ‘ENALADEX’:tn OR ‘ENALADIL’:tn OR ‘ENALAMED’:tn OR  ‘ENALAPRIL’:tn OR ‘ENALAPRILMALEAAT’:tn OR ‘ENALART’:tn OR ‘ENALIN’:tn OR ‘ENAM’:tn OR  ‘ENAP’:tn OR ‘ENAP R’:tn OR ‘ENAPREN’:tn OR ‘ENAPRESS’:tn OR ‘ENAPRIL’:tn OR ‘ENAPROTEC’:tn OR  ‘ENARENAL’:tn OR ‘ENARIL’:tn OR ‘ENATEC’:tn OR ‘ENEAS’:tn OR ‘ENPRIL’:tn OR ‘ENVAS’:tn OR  ‘ENZIX’:tn OR ‘EPRIL’:tn OR ‘EUPRESSIN’:tn OR ‘GLIOTEN’:tn OR ‘HYPACE’:tn OR ‘IECATEC’:tn OR  ‘INNOVACE’:tn OR ‘INSUP’:tn OR ‘INVORIL’:tn OR ‘KORANDIL’:tn OR ‘LARILUDON’:tn OR ‘LENIMEC’:tn  OR ‘LERCANIL’:tn OR ‘LERCAPRESS’:tn OR ‘LERITE’:tn OR ‘LINATIL’:tn OR ‘LOTRIAL’:tn OR ‘MEPRIL’:tn  OR ‘NALOPRIL’:tn OR ‘OLIVIN’:tn OR ‘PHARMAPRESS’:tn OR ‘PHARPRIL’:tn OR ‘PRILENAP’:tn OR  ‘PRYLTEC’:tn OR ‘RENAPRIL’:tn OR ‘RENIPRIL’:tn OR ‘RENITEC’:tn OR ‘RENITEN’:tn OR ‘RENIVACE’:tn     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 104/368   OR ‘RENIVEZE’:tn OR ‘RENOPENT’:tn OR ‘REVINBACE’:tn OR ‘SELIS’:tn OR ‘SPACIOL’:tn OR  ‘VAPRESAN’:tn OR ‘VASODIP COMBO’:tn OR ‘VASOPREN’:tn OR ‘VASOPRIL’:tn OR ‘VASOTEC’:tn OR  ‘XANEF’:tn OR ‘ZACOOL’:tn OR ‘ZANEXTRA’:tn OR ‘ZANIPRESS’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp  OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   58. Indapamide   ‘INDAPAMIDE’ OR ‘INDAPAMID’ OR ‘INDAPAMIDU’ OR ‘INDAPAMIDĂ’ OR ‘INDAPAMIDA’ OR  ‘INDAPAMIDAS’ OR ‘INDAPAMIDUM’ OR ‘INDAPAMIDI’ OR ‘INDAPAMIID’ OR ‘INDAPAMIDUM’ OR  ‘ACTAPAM’:tn OR ‘ALVONAMID’:tn OR ‘APINDAP 4/1.25 MG’:tn OR ‘INDAP 2.5 MG’:tn OR ‘PERINDO  COMBI’:tn OR ‘BI PREDONIUM’:tn OR ‘BI PRETERAX’:tn OR ‘BI PRETERAX -ARGININ’:tn OR  ‘BIONOLIPREL’:tn OR ‘BIOPREXANIL COMBI’:tn OR ‘BIPRETERAX’:tn OR ‘CARDIDE SR’:tn OR ‘CO - INDIPAM’:tn OR ‘CO -MARANIL’:tn OR ‘CO -PAXENE’:tn OR ‘CO -PERINEVA’:tn OR ‘CO -PRENESSA’:tn OR  ‘CO-PRESOMYL’:tn OR ‘CO -PRILLANA’:tn OR ‘COMARANIL’:tn OR ‘COPERINDO’:tn OR ‘COPRENESSA’:tn  OR ‘CORDAPAQ’:tn OR ‘COTREZEN’:tn OR ‘COVERSYL ARGININE PLUS’:tn OR ‘COVERSYL COMP  NOVUM’:tn OR ‘COVERSYL PLUS’:tn OR ‘DANURIT’:tn OR ‘DAXPAMIL DUO’:tn OR ‘DIPAM’:tn OR  ‘DIURELIX XL’:tn OR ‘DIURESIN SR’:tn OR ‘DOPRIGALIN’:tn OR ‘FARMOZ’:tn OR ‘FLUDEX’:tn  OR  ‘FLUIDEMA’:tn OR ‘FRUMERON’:tn OR ‘GLEPERIL COMBI’:tn OR ‘GLEPERIL PLUS’:tn OR ‘ICORVIDA  SR’:tn OR ‘IDUREN SR’:tn OR ‘IMPAMID SR’:tn OR ‘INDACORD’:tn OR ‘INDAMAX’:tn OR ‘INDAMID  SR’:tn OR ‘INDAMOL’:tn OR ‘INDAP’:tn OR ‘INDAPAGAMMA’:tn OR ‘INDAPAMID -’:tn OR  ‘INDAPAMIDA’:tn OR ‘INDAPAMIDE’:tn OR ‘INDAPAMIDE -PERINDOPRIL ERBUMINE’:tn OR  ‘INDAPAMIDU ‘:tn OR ‘INDAPEN’:tn OR ‘INDAPEN SR’:tn OR ‘INDAPRES’:tn OR ‘INDAPRES XL’:tn OR  ‘INDASTAD’:tn OR ‘INDATENS’:tn OR ‘INDIX COMBI’:tn OR ‘INDIX SR’:tn OR ‘INDOFORT’:tn OR ‘INPIL  PLUS’:tn OR ‘IPRES LONG’:tn OR ‘IVIPAMID’:tn OR ‘LAPIDEN’:tn OR ‘LEVENOR PLUSZ’:tn OR  ‘LORATADINE’:tn OR ‘LORVACS’:tn OR ‘NARVA SR’:tn OR ‘NATRAMID/OPUMIDE’:tn OR ‘NATRILIX’:tn  OR ‘NOLIPREL’:tn OR ‘NOLITERAX’:tn OR ‘NORPRESS’:tn OR ‘OPAMID’:tn OR ‘PAMOCOMBI’:tn OR  ‘PANINDORIL’:tn OR ‘PANOPRIST’:tn OR ‘PARATERAX’:tn OR ‘PEDAPRIN’:tn OR ‘PEDIUR’:tn OR  ‘PEIRNDOPRIL TERT -BUTYLAMINE/INDAPAMIDE GLENMARK’:tn OR ‘PENDREX PLUS’:tn OR  ‘PERCOMBI’:tn  OR ‘PERGINDAMYL’:tn OR ‘PERILEXIN’:tn OR ‘PERIMYL ARGININ COMBI’:tn OR  ‘PERINALON’:tn OR ‘PERINARGINDAPA’:tn OR ‘PERINDAMIDE’:tn OR ‘PERINDAP’:tn OR  ‘PERINDASAN’:tn OR ‘PERINDOCOMBI’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPLUS’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPLUS’:tn OR  ‘PERINDOPRIL + INDAPAMIDA’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL + INDAPAMIDE KRKA’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL +  INDAPAMIDE LABESFAL’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL + LNDAPAMIDE KRKA’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL /  INDAPAMIDA ‘:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL ARGININA/INDAPAMIDA SERVIER’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL ARGININE     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 105/368   / INDAPAMIDE’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL ARGININE / INDAPAMIDE’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL ARGININE/  INDAPAMIDE SERVIER’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL ARGININE/INDAPAMIDE BIOGARAN’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL  ARGININE/INDAPAMIDE ‘:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL ARGININE/INDAPAMIDE SERVIER’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL  E INDAPAMIDE’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL E INDAPAMIDE EG’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL INDAPAMID’:tn  OR  ‘PERINDOPRIL INDAPAMIDE’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL PLUS INDAPAMID HEXAL’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL  TERBUTILAMINA/ INDAPAMIDA’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL TERT -BUTYLAMIN/INDAPAMID’:tn OR  ‘PERINDOPRIL TERT -BUTYLAMINE / INDAPAMIDE’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL TERT - BUTYLAMINE/INDAPAMID’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL TERT -BUTYLAMINE/INDAPAMID ’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL  TERT-BUTYLAMINE/INDAPAMIDE’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL TOSILAAT/INDAPAMIDE’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL  TOSILAT/INDAPAMIDĂ’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL TOSILATE -INDAPAMIDE’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL TOSILATE/  INDAPAMIDE’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL TOSILATE/INDAPAMIDE’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL  TOSILATE/INDAPAMIDE ‘:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL+INDAPAMIDA ‘:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL+INDAPAMIDA  ZENTIVA’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL+INDAPAMIDE’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL -ARGININ’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL - DURA PLUS’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL -ERBUMIN/INDAPAMID JENSON’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL - INDAPAMIDE’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL -TOZILÁT/INDAPAMID ‘:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL/INDAPAMID’:tn OR  ‘PERINDOPRIL/INDAPAMID -’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL/INDAPAMIDA’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL/INDAPAMIDE’:tn  OR ‘PERINDOPRIL/INDAPAMIDĂ ‘:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL/INDEPAMIDE GLENMARK’:tn OR ‘PERINDORPIL  TOSILAAT/INDAPAMIDE ‘:tn OR ‘PERINPA’:tn OR ‘PERIVOL COMBO’:tn OR ‘PISIZIF SR’:tn OR  ‘PREDONIUM’:tn OR ‘PRELECTAL’:tn OR ‘PRENEWEL’:tn OR ‘PRESSURAL’:tn OR ‘PRESTARIUM’:tn OR  ‘PRETANIX’:tn OR ‘PRETERAX -ARGININ’:tn OR ‘PRETERIAN’:tn OR ‘PRETERVAL’:tn OR ‘PREXANIL  COMBI’:tn OR ‘PREXANIL COMBI A’:tn OR ‘PRICORON COMBI’:tn OR ‘PRINDAVAM’:tn OR ‘PRINDEX  COMBI’:tn OR ‘PRINDEX PLUS’:tn OR ‘PROINDAP’:tn OR ‘PÉRINDOPRIL ARGININE / INDAPAMIDE  BIOGARAN’:tn OR ‘PÉRINDOPRIL/INDAPAMIDE ZYDUS’:tn OR ‘RAWEL SR’:tn OR ‘RAWEL XL’:tn OR  ‘REDITENS SR’:tn OR ‘RINDECOMBI’:tn OR ‘ROMAPAL’:tn OR ‘SERDIMID’:tn OR ‘SOPHTENSIF’:tn OR  ‘SYMAPAMID SR’:tn OR ‘TANDIX’:tn OR ‘TANDIX LP’:tn OR ‘TECAZO’:tn OR ‘TENSAID XL’:tn OR  ‘TERAXANS’:tn OR ‘TERTENSIF’:tn OR ‘TERTENSIFKOMB’:tn OR ‘INDAM’:tn OR ‘VARBIM XL’:tn OR  ‘VASODIPIN’:tn OR ‘VEROXIL’:tn OR ‘VIDOTIN KOMB’:tn OR ‘VOXIN COMBO’:tn OR ‘ZAPRINEL  PLUS’:tn OR ‘INDAPAMIDE’:tn OR ‘ARIFON’:tn OR ‘BI PREDONIUM’:tn OR ‘BI PRETERAX’:tn OR  ‘BIPRETERAX’:tn OR ‘CO -PERINEVA’:tn OR ‘COVERSUM COMBI’:tn OR ‘COVERSUM N COMBI’:tn OR  ‘COVERSYL PLUS’:tn OR ‘DAPA -TABS’:tn OR ‘DAPAMAX’:tn OR ‘FLUDAPAMID’:tn OR ‘FLUDEX’:tn OR  ‘IDAPREX COMBI’:tn OR ‘INDAHEXAL’:tn OR ‘INDAMOL’:tn OR ‘INDAP’:tn OR ‘INDAPAMIDA’:tn OR  ‘INDAPAMIDE’:tn OR ‘INDAPEN’:tn OR ‘INDAPEN SR’:tn OR ‘INDAPRES’:tn OR ‘INDIPAM’:tn OR  ‘LORVAS.’:tn OR ‘LOZIDE’:tn OR ‘LOZOL’:tn OR ‘ -INDAPAMIDE’:tn OR ‘NATRILIX’:tn OR ‘NATRIX’:tn OR  ‘NOLIPREL’:tn OR ‘NOLITERAX’:tn OR ‘NORPRESS’:tn OR ‘NOVO -INDAPAMIDE’:tn OR ‘PAMID’:tn OR  ‘PERINDO COMBI’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL/INDAPAMIDE’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL/INDAPAMIDE ‘:tn OR ‘PMS - INDAPAMIDE’:tn OR ‘PRESTARIUM COMBI ARGININE’:tn OR ‘PRETANIX’:tn OR ‘PREXUM PLUS’:tn OR  ‘PRO-INDAPAMIDE’:tn OR ‘RAWEL SR’:tn OR ‘RETAPRES’:tn OR ‘RIVA -INDAPAMIDE’:tn OR  ‘TENAXIL’:tn OR ‘TERTENSIF SR’:tn OR ‘VECTORYL PLUS’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 106/368   hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   59. Ondansetron   ‘ONDANSETRON’ OR ‘ONDANSETRONS’ OR ‘ONDANSETRONAS’ OR ‘ONDANSETRONUM’ OR  ‘ONDANSZETRON’ OR ‘ONDANSÉTRON’ OR ‘ONDANSETRÓN’ OR ‘ATOSSA’:tn OR ‘AVESSARON’:tn OR  ‘BELOFRAN’:tn OR ‘BIOSETRON’:tn OR ‘BONDATHEN’:tn OR ‘CELLONDAN’:tn OR ‘CRUZAFEN’:tn OR  ‘DEMOREM’:tn OR ‘DENTRON’:tn OR ‘EMESET’:tn OR ‘EMETRON’:tn OR ‘EMIZOF’:tn OR ‘GAMIDARIN’:tn  OR ‘HEXATRON’:tn OR ‘JODOL’:tn OR ‘NEODEX’:tn OR ‘NOVETRON’:tn OR ‘ONDA’:tn OR  ‘ONDAMETON’:tn OR ‘ONDAN’:tn OR ‘ONDANSAN’:tn OR ‘ONDANSAN I.V.’:tn OR ‘ONDANSEDRON -’:tn  OR ‘ONDANSETROM’:tn OR ‘ONDANSETRON -’:tn OR ‘ONDANSETRON -’:tn OR ‘ONDANSETRONE’:tn OR  ‘ONDANSTERON’:tn OR ‘ONDASEPROL’:tn OR ‘ONDATRAN’:tn OR ‘ONDATRIWA’:tn OR ‘ONDATRON’:tn  OR ‘ONDAVELL’:tn OR ‘ONDEMET’:tn OR ‘ONDENSETRON’:tn OR ‘ONDILIA’:tn OR ‘ONDRAN’:tn OR  ‘ONSETROGEN’:tn OR ‘ONSETRON’:tn OR ‘ONTRONOVO’:tn OR ‘OROSET’:tn OR ‘OSETRON’:tn OR  ‘OTOBROL’:tn OR ‘SETOFILM’:tn OR ‘SETOFIM’:tn OR ‘SETRODAN’:tn OR ‘SETROGEN’:tn OR  ‘SETRONON’:tn OR ‘SIGONDAN’:tn OR ‘SIGONDAN ZUR ANWENDUNG BEI KINDERN UND  ERWACHSENEN’:tn OR ‘ ONDANSETRON’:tn OR ‘TRONDAMET’:tn OR ‘VEFRON’:tn OR ‘VOMITA’:tn OR  ‘YATROX’:tn OR ‘ZETRON’:tn OR ‘ZODATRON’:tn OR ‘ZOFRAN’:tn OR ‘ZOFRAN -ZYDIS’:tn OR  ‘ZOFRON’:tn OR ‘ZOFSETRON’:tn OR ‘ZONDARON’:tn OR ‘ZOPHRALEN’:tn OR ‘ZOPHREN’:tn OR  ‘ZOTRON’:tn OR ‘ANSENTRON’:tn OR ‘EMESET’:tn OR ‘EMETRON’:tn OR ‘FRAZON’:tn OR  ‘HEXATRON’:tn OR ‘IZOFRAN’:tn OR ‘NARFOZ’:tn OR ‘NAUSEDRON’:tn OR ‘ONDANSAN’:tn OR  ‘ONDANSETRÓN’:tn OR ‘ONDASAN’:tn OR ‘ONDAZ’:tn OR ‘ONDEMET’:tn OR ‘ONDENSETRON’:tn OR  ‘ONSETROGEN’:tn OR ‘ONSETRON’:tn OR ‘ONSIA’:tn OR ‘OSETRON’:tn OR ‘OTOBROL’:tn OR  ‘SETRON’:tn OR ‘SETRONON’:tn OR ‘VONAU’:tn OR ‘ZETRON’:tn OR ‘ZOFER’:tn OR ‘ZOFRAN’:tn OR  ‘ZOFRAN -ZYDIS’:tn OR ‘ZOFRON’:tn OR ‘ZOPHREN’:tn OR ‘ZUPLENZ’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 107/368   60. Candesartan   ‘CANDESARTAN’ OR ‘CANDESARTANUM’ OR ‘CANDÉSARTAN’ OR ‘CANDESARTÁN’ OR ‘ACRUX’ OR  ‘CANDESARTAN’ OR ‘ALDIRECA’:tn OR ‘AMIAS’:tn OR ‘ATACAND’:tn OR ‘CADEXYL’:tn OR ‘CANDE -Q’:tn  OR ‘CANDEA’:tn OR ‘CANDEBLO’:tn OR ‘CANDECIL’:tn OR ‘CANDECOR’:tn OR ‘CANDEGAMMA’:tn OR  ‘CANDEMOX’:tn OR ‘CANDEPOL’:tn OR ‘CANDEPRES’:tn OR ‘CANDEPRESS’:tn OR ‘CANDESARSTAD’:tn  OR ‘CANDESARTAN’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTAN CILEXETIL’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTAN’:tn ‘CANDESARTÁN’:tn  OR ‘CANDESTAD’:tn OR ‘CANDEXETIL’:tn OR ‘CANDIST’:tn OR ‘CANDPRESS’:tn OR ‘CANOCORD’:tn OR  ‘CANTAR’:tn OR ‘CANZENO’:tn OR ‘CARDAX’:tn OR ‘CARDESART’:tn OR ‘CARZAN’:tn OR ‘CASARLIC’:tn  OR ‘CATASART’:tn OR ‘HIPOSTYN 8 MG’:tn OR ‘HYPOSART’:tn OR ‘KAIRASEC’:tn OR ‘KANDEPRES’:tn  OR ‘KANDESAR’:tn OR ‘KANDESARTAN ‘:tn OR ‘KANDROZID’:tn OR ‘KANGEN GENERICS’:tn OR  ‘KARBIS’:tn OR ‘KENZEN’:tn OR ‘RANACAND’:tn OR ‘REPIDO’:tn OR ‘SILARDAF’:tn OR ‘STADACAND’:tn  OR ‘TANDESAR’:tn OR ‘XALEEC’:tn OR ‘ADESAN’:tn OR ‘CANDESARTAN’:tn OR ‘ATACAND’:tn OR  ‘AYRA’:tn OR ‘CANDECOR’:tn OR ‘CANDERIN’:tn OR ‘CANSARTAN’:tn OR ‘KANDESAR’:tn OR  ‘KENZEN’:tn OR ‘PEMZ’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   61. Risedronic Acid   ‘RISEDRONIC ACID’ OR ‘RISEDRONATE’ OR ‘ACIDUM RISEDRONICUM’ OR ‘ACIDE RISÉDRONIQUE’ OR  ‘ÁCIDO RISEDRÓNICO’ OR ‘ACREL’:tn OR ‘ACRIDON’:tn OR ‘ACTONEL’:tn OR ‘ACTORID’:tn OR  ‘ATRONATE’:tn OR ‘AVESTRA’:tn OR ‘AXEDRONATE’:tn OR ‘BENCOMIN’:tn OR ‘BIFODRON’:tn OR  ‘BONAPENYA’:tn OR ‘BONDAMAX 75’:tn OR ‘BONDAPEN’:tn OR ‘BONEACT’:tn OR ‘BONMATE’:tn OR  ‘CEDRAVIS’:tn OR ‘CLADRONATE’:tn OR ‘DIFOSFON -S’:tn OR ‘FODREN’:tn OR ‘ISEDRIL’:tn OR  ‘JUVERITAL’:tn OR ‘KARADRONAT’:tn OR ‘LORINE’:tn OR ‘MEDEOROS’:tn OR ‘MELENOR’:tn OR  ‘MIOSEN SEMANAL’:tn OR ‘MOTIVUS’:tn OR ‘NATRIJEV RISEDRONAT’:tn OR  ‘NATRIUMRISEDRONAAT’:tn OR ‘NIL’:tn OR ‘NORIFAZ’:tn OR ‘NORSED COMBI’:tn OR ‘OPTINATE’:tn  OR ‘OSODENS’:tn OR ‘OSTORIS’:tn OR ‘PALIBONE’:tn OR ‘RACIDRIX’:tn OR ‘RESORPATE’:tn OR  ‘RIBIDRON’:tn OR ‘RIDATE’:tn OR ‘RIDATE PLUS CA & D’:tn OR ‘RIDRACID’:tn OR ‘RILOVANS’:tn OR  ‘RISDRONOSTAD’:tn OR ‘RISEBON’:tn OR ‘RISEBONE’:tn OR ‘RISECEUS’:tn OR ‘RISECTOL’:tn OR  ‘RISEDORA’:tn OR ‘RISEDREENOS’:tn OR ‘RISEDROGEN GENERICS [UK]’:tn OR ‘RISEDRONAAT’:tn OR  ‘RISEDRONAATNATRIUM’:tn OR ‘RISEDRONAT’:tn OR ‘RISEDRONAT -’:tn OR ‘RISEDRONAT -’:tn OR  ‘RISEDRONATE SODIUM’:tn OR ‘RISEDRONATE/’:tn OR ‘RISEDRONATENATRIUM’:tn OR  ‘RISEDRONATO’:tn OR ‘RISEDRONATO’:tn OR ‘RISEDRONATO SEMANAL’:tn OR ‘RISEDRONATO’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 108/368   ‘RISEDRONSÄURE’:tn OR ‘RISEDRONSÄURE -CT’:tn OR ‘RISEDROZIL’:tn OR ‘RISEGARTHEN’:tn OR  ‘RISELIB’:tn OR ‘RISEMED’:tn OR ‘RISE’:tn OR ‘RISENCAL’:tn OR ‘RISENDRON’:tn OR ‘RISENDROS’:tn  OR ‘RISEPALLIN’:tn OR ‘RISERATIO’:tn OR ‘RISE’:tn OR ‘RISONAT’:tn OR ‘RISONATE’:tn OR ‘RISONTEL  ONCE A WEEK’:tn OR ‘RISOSTAD’:tn OR ‘RIZIDA’:tn OR ‘SEDRONE’:tn OR ‘SIMEDRAL’:tn OR ‘NEL’:tn  OR ‘TRIMMER’:tn OR ‘VARIBONA’:tn OR ‘VESNAR’:tn OR ‘VICENDROLIN’:tn OR ‘VIONATE’:tn OR  ‘YARISEN’:tn OR ‘ZECTOEL’:tn OR ‘ACRIS’:tn OR ‘ACTONEL’:tn OR ‘ATELVIA’:tn OR ‘BENET’:tn OR  ‘OPTINATE’:tn OR ‘OSTEOBLOCK’:tn OR ‘RISEDRON’:tn OR ‘RISEDRONATE’:tn OR ‘RISEDROSS’:tn OR  ‘RISENDRON’:tn OR ‘RISENDROS’:tn OR ‘TECNODRON’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim     62. Pravastatin   ‘PRAVASTATIN’ OR ‘(3R,5R) -7-[(1S,2R,6S,8S,8AR) -6-HYDROXY -2-METHYL -8-[(2S) -2- METHYLBUTANOYL]OXY -1,2,6,7,8,8A -HEXAHYDRONAPHTHALEN -1-YL]-3,5-DIHYDROXY -HEPTANOIC A’  OR ‘EPTASTATIN’ OR ‘PRAVASTATINA’ OR ‘PRAWASTATYNA’ OR ‘PRAVASTATINE’ OR ‘PRAVASTATĪNS’  OR ‘PRAVASTATINUM’ OR ‘PRAVASZTATIN’ OR ‘PRAVASTATINE’ OR ‘PRAVASTATIINI’ OR  ‘PRAVASTATIIN’ OR ‘PRAVASTATINA’ OR ‘PRAVASTATINUM’ OR ‘ADRESTAT’:tn OR ‘ANALIPIN’:tn OR  ‘APLACTIN’:tn OR ‘ASTO - CHOL’:tn OR ‘BRISTACOL’:tn OR ‘DOC PRAVASTATINE’:tn OR ‘ELISOR’:tn  OR ‘LANGIPRAV’:tn OR ‘LIPAPRAV’:tn OR ‘LIPEMOL’:tn OR ‘LIPIFACIL’:tn OR ‘LIPLAT’:tn OR  ‘LIPOPRAV’:tn OR ‘LIPOSTAT’:tn OR ‘LIPOVAS’:tn OR ‘LIPRATIF’:tn OR ‘MAXUDIN’:tn OR  ‘MINUSCOL’:tn OR ‘NIKRON’:tn OR ‘PANCHOL’:tn OR ‘PRALIP’:tn OR ‘PRAREDUCT’:tn OR  ‘PRASTEROL’:tn OR ‘PRATIFLIP’:tn OR ‘PRAVA’:tn OR ‘PRAVA -’:tn OR ‘PRAVACHOL’:tn OR  ‘PRAVACOL’:tn OR ‘PRAVAFACT’:tn OR ‘PRAVAFENIX’:tn OR ‘PRAVAGAMMA’:tn OR ‘PRAVAHELP’:tn OR  ‘PRAVAHEXAL’:tn OR ‘PRAVALAM’:tn OR ‘PRAVALICH’:tn OR ‘PRAVALIP’:tn OR ‘PRAVALONG’:tn OR  ‘PRAVAMEL’:tn OR ‘PRAVANDREA’:tn OR ‘PRAVANOX’:tn OR ‘PRAVASELECT’:tn OR ‘PRAVASINE’:tn OR  ‘PRAVASTATIININATRIUMIA’:tn OR ‘PRAVASTATIN’:tn OR ‘PRAVASTATIN SODIUM’:tn OR  ‘PRAVASTATIN’:tn OR ‘PRAVASTATIN -CT’:tn OR ‘PRAVASTATIN -NATRIUM’:tn OR ‘PRAVASTATIN -’:tn  OR ‘PRAVASTATINE’:tn OR ‘PRAVASTATINNATRIUM’:tn OR ‘PRAVASTATINĂ’:tn OR ‘PRAVASTIN -’:tn OR  ‘PRAVAT’:tn OR ‘PRAVATOR’:tn OR ‘PRAVAXIS’:tn OR ‘PRAVIN’:tn OR ‘PRAVITIN’:tn OR  ‘PRAVIZIDIX’:tn OR ‘PRITANOL’:tn OR ‘PRIVAST’:tn OR ‘RASTANIT’:tn OR ‘SANAPRAV’:tn OR  ‘SELECTIN’:tn OR ‘SELEKTINE’:tn OR ‘SETAC’:tn OR ‘SOSMIN’:tn OR ‘STATIFIL’:tn OR  ‘STATINOPRAV’:tn OR ‘VASTATIFIX’:tn OR ‘VASTEN’:tn OR ‘VASTICOR’:tn OR ‘VASTIL’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 109/368   ‘ZOTER’:tn OR ‘ALSETIN’:tn OR ‘PRAVASTATIN’:tn OR ‘CHOLERIT’:tn OR ‘CHOLSTAT’:tn OR ‘ELISOR’:tn  OR ‘LIDUC M’:tn OR ‘LIPIDAL’:tn OR ‘LIPOSTAT’:tn OR ‘LIPOVAS’:tn OR ‘MAIBASTAN’:tn OR  ‘MEVALECT’:tn OR ‘MEVALOTIN’:tn OR ‘MEVAN’:tn OR ‘MEVARICH’:tn OR ‘MEVATORTE’:tn OR  ‘PRAMEVAN’:tn OR ‘PRAVA’:tn OR ‘PRAVACHOL’:tn OR ‘PRAVACOL’:tn OR ‘PRAVAFENIX’:tn OR  ‘PRAVALIP’:tn OR ‘PRAVALOTIN’:tn OR ‘PRAVAMATE’:tn OR ‘PRAVAPEAK’:tn OR ‘PRAVASIN’:tn OR  ‘PRAVASTAN’:tn OR ‘PRAVASTAT’:tn OR ‘PRAVASTATIN’:tn OR ‘PRAVASTATINA’:tn OR  ‘PRAVASTATINE’:tn OR ‘PRAVASTATINENATRIUM’:tn OR ‘PRAVASTAX’:tn OR ‘PRAVATIN’:tn OR  ‘PRAVATOR’:tn OR ‘SELECTIN’:tn OR ‘SELEKTINE’:tn OR ‘SELIPRAN’:tn OR ‘TATSUPLAMIN’:tn OR  ‘VASTEN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   63. Glimepiride   ‘GLIMEPIRIDE’ OR ‘GLIMEPIRID’ OR ‘GLIMEPIRIDA’ OR ‘GLIMEPIRID’ OR ‘GLIMEPIRIDA’ OR  ‘GLIMEPIRYD’ OR ‘GLIMEPIRIDE’ OR ‘GLIMEPIRĪDS’ OR ‘GLIMEPIRIDAS’ OR ‘GLIMEPIRIDUM’ OR  ‘GLIMEPIRID’ OR ‘GLIMEPIRID’ OR ‘GLIMÉPIRIDE’ OR ‘GLIMEPIRIDIÄ’ OR ‘GLIMEPIRIID’ OR  ‘GLIMEPIRIDA’ OR ‘GLIMEPIRID’ OR ‘GLIMEPIRID’ OR ‘AMAGEN’:tn OR ‘AMAREL’:tn OR ‘AMARYL’:tn OR  ‘AMARYLLE’:tn OR ‘ANOVIS’:tn OR ‘AVARON’:tn OR ‘DIA -BAN’:tn OR ‘DIALOSA’:tn OR ‘DIAMEL’:tn OR  ‘DIAMITUS’:tn OR ‘DIAPIRID’:tn OR ‘DIARIL’:tn OR ‘DIBIGLIM’:tn OR ‘EGLYMAD’:tn OR ‘FERTIN’:tn OR  ‘FERTIN’:tn OR ‘GLEMID’:tn OR ‘GLEMPID’:tn OR ‘GLIBETIC’:tn OR ‘GLIBEZID’:tn OR ‘GLIDIAMID’:tn  OR ‘GLIDIL’:tn OR ‘GLIME TAD’:tn OR ‘GLIME -Q’:tn OR ‘GLIMEGAMMA’:tn OR ‘GLIMEHEXAL’:tn OR  ‘GLIMEPERID -’:tn OR ‘GLIMEPIRID’:tn OR ‘GLIMEPIRID -’:tn OR ‘GLIMEPIRIDA’:tn OR ‘GLIMEPIRIDE’:tn  OR ‘GLIMEPIRON’:tn OR ‘GLIMEPIRYD SYMPHAR’:tn OR ‘GLIMEPRIDE’:tn OR ‘GLIMEPRISAN’:tn OR  ‘GLIMERID’:tn OR ‘GLIMERYL’:tn OR ‘GLIMESPES’:tn OR ‘GLIMEXIN’:tn OR ‘GLIMIAL’:tn OR  ‘GLIMPOR’:tn OR ‘GLINCIL’:tn OR ‘GLIPER’:tn OR ‘GLIPERIN’:tn OR ‘GLIPID’:tn OR ‘GLIPREX’:tn OR  ‘GLIRID’:tn OR ‘GLITOPREL’:tn OR ‘GLIVASOL’:tn OR ‘GLUDON’:tn OR ‘GLYMEXAN’:tn OR ‘LIMERAL’:tn  OR ‘LIMEZAPINE’:tn OR ‘MAGNA’:tn OR ‘MEDOPIRID’:tn OR ‘MEGLIMID’:tn OR ‘MELPAMID’:tn OR  ‘MELYD’:tn OR ‘MEPIRID’:tn OR ‘NAFURIL’:tn OR ‘NICORDILEN’:tn OR ‘OLTAR’:tn OR ‘PEMIDAL’:tn OR  ‘PENOZA’:tn OR ‘PIRIGLIM’:tn OR ‘PRIGLIDE’:tn OR ‘RALTONE’:tn OR ‘RONAME’:tn OR ‘SINTECAL’:tn  OR ‘SOLOSA’:tn OR ‘STAPIRIDE’:tn OR ‘SUCRYL’:tn OR ‘SYMGLIC’:tn OR ‘TANDEMACT’:tn OR  ‘TETIG’:tn OR ‘TOREMOL’:tn OR ‘TRICAL’:tn OR ‘ZOPIDE’:tn OR ‘ΑDINSULIN -S’:tn OR ‘AMAREL’:tn OR  ‘AMARYL’:tn OR ‘AMARYLLE’:tn OR ‘AYLIDE’:tn OR ‘AZULIX’:tn OR ‘BIOGLIC’:tn OR ‘DIAMEDY’:tn OR  ‘DIAMEL’:tn OR ‘DIAPRIDE’:tn OR ‘DIBIGLIM’:tn OR ‘DIMIREL’:tn OR ‘DUETACT’:tn OR ‘EUGLIM’:tn OR  ‘GLEMAZ’:tn OR ‘GLIBETIC’:tn OR ‘GLIMARYL’:tn OR ‘GLIMAX’:tn OR ‘GLIMEPIBAL’:tn OR ‘GLIMEPIL’:tn  OR ‘GLIMEPIRID’:tn OR ‘GLIMEPIRIDA’:tn OR ‘GLIMEPIRIDE’:tn OR ‘GLIMERID’:tn OR ‘GLIMERYL’:tn     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 110/368   OR ‘GLIMULIN’:tn OR ‘GLIPID’:tn OR ‘HOE490’:tn OR ‘LIMERAL’:tn OR ‘METRIX’:tn OR ‘NORIZEC’:tn  OR ‘SOLOSA’:tn OR ‘SONIAS LD’:tn OR ‘TRICAL’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   64. Lisinopril   ‘LISINOPRIL’ OR ‘LIZINOPRIL’ OR ‘LISINOPRIL’ OR ‘LIZINOPRIL’ OR ‘LISINOPRIL’ OR ‘LISINOPRIL’ OR  ‘LIZYNOPRYL’ OR ‘LISINOPRIL’ OR ‘LIZINOPRILS’ OR ‘LIZINOPRILIS’ OR ‘LISINOPRILUM’ OR  ‘LIZINOPRIL’ OR ‘LIZINOPRIL’ OR ‘LISINOPRIL’ OR ‘LISINOPRIL’ OR ‘LISINOPRIL’ OR ‘LISINOPRILUM’  OR ‘LISINOPRIL’ OR ‘ACETAN’:tn OR ‘ADICANIL’:tn OR ‘ALBIGONE’:tn OR ‘BELLISIN’:tn OR  ‘CARDIOSTAD’:tn OR ‘CORDACARE’:tn OR ‘DAPRIL’:tn OR ‘DIKEPRIL’:tn OR ‘DIROTON’:tn OR  ‘DONEKA’:tn OR ‘ECAPRIL’:tn OR ‘ENLISIN’:tn OR ‘ICORAN’:tn OR ‘IRUMED’:tn OR ‘LAAVEN’:tn OR  ‘LERUZE’:tn OR ‘LESTACE’:tn OR ‘LINO’:tn OR ‘LIPRIL’:tn OR ‘LISI AIWA’:tn OR ‘LISI LICH’:tn OR  ‘LISI-HENNIG’:tn OR ‘LISIDIGAL’:tn OR ‘LISIGEN’:tn OR ‘LISIHEXAL’:tn OR ‘LISINOMER’:tn OR  ‘LISINOPRIL -Q JUTA’:tn OR ‘LISINORATIO’:tn OR ‘LISINOSTAD’:tn OR ‘LISINOTENS’:tn OR ‘LISIP’:tn  OR ‘LISIPRIL’:tn OR ‘LISIPROL’:tn OR ‘LISIREN’:tn OR ‘LISODURA’:tn OR ‘LISOPRESS’:tn OR  ‘LISPRIL’:tn OR ‘LISTEN’:tn OR ‘LIZOPRIL’:tn OR ‘MEALIS’:tn OR ‘OPTIMON’:tn OR ‘PERENAL’:tn OR  ‘PRESS TABLETTA’:tn OR ‘PRESSAMEA’:tn OR ‘PRESSURIL’:tn OR ‘PRILISE’:tn OR ‘PRIMYLIS’:tn OR  ‘PRINIVIL’:tn OR ‘RANOLIP’:tn OR ‘RANOPRIL’:tn OR ‘SKOPRYL’:tn OR ‘ LISINOPRIL’:tn OR  ‘TONOLYSIN’:tn OR ‘VERCOL’:tn OR ‘VITOPRIL’:tn OR ‘Z -BEC’:tn OR ‘ZESGER’:tn OR ‘ZESTAN’:tn OR  ‘ZESTRIL’:tn OR ‘ACEMIN’:tn OR ‘ACERBON’:tn OR ‘LISINOPRIL’:tn OR ‘ASRARN’:tn OR  ‘CARDIOSTAD’:tn OR ‘CORIC’:tn OR ‘DAPRIL’:tn OR ‘DIROTON’:tn OR ‘FIBSOL’:tn OR ‘IRUMED’:tn OR  ‘LINIPRIL’:tn OR ‘LIPRIL’:tn OR ‘LISDENE’:tn OR ‘LISINOL’:tn OR ‘LISINOPRIL’:tn OR ‘LISIPRIL’:tn OR  ‘LISIPROL’:tn OR ‘LISITRIL’:tn OR ‘LISODUR’:tn OR ‘LISOPRESS’:tn OR ‘LISOPRIL’:tn OR ‘LISORIL’:tn  OR ‘LISPRIL’:tn OR ‘LISTRIL’:tn OR ‘LOKOPOOL’:tn OR ‘LONGERIL’:tn OR ‘LONGES’:tn OR ‘ - LISINOPRIL’:tn OR ‘NOPERTEN’:tn OR ‘NOVATEC’:tn OR ‘PRINIL’:tn OR ‘PRINIVIL’:tn OR ‘RANOPRIL’:tn  OR ‘SINOPREN’:tn OR ‘SINOPRYL’:tn OR ‘SKOPRYL’:tn OR ‘TENSIKEY’:tn OR ‘TENSIPHAR’:tn OR ‘ - LISINOPRIL’:tn OR ‘VITOPRIL’:tn OR ‘ZESTRIL’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 111/368   'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   65. Carvedilol   ‘CARVEDILOL’ OR ‘KARVEDILOL’ OR ‘CARVEDILOL’ OR ‘CARVEDILOL’ OR ‘KARWEDYLOL’ OR  ‘KARWEDILOL’ OR ‘CARVEDILOL’ OR ‘KARVEDILOLS’ OR ‘CARVEDILOLUM’ OR ‘CARVEDILOLO’ OR  ‘CARVÉDILOL’ OR ‘KARVEDILOLIA’ OR ‘CARVEDILOL’ OR ‘CARVEDILOL’ OR ‘CARVEDILOL’ OR  ‘CARVEDILOLUM’ OR ‘ACARDEN’:tn OR ‘CARVE 25 MG’:tn OR ‘CARVE 6.25 MG’:tn OR ‘ATRAM’:tn OR  ‘AVEDOL’:tn OR ‘AVERNOL’:tn OR ‘BICOL’:tn OR ‘CADIL’:tn OR ‘CARAVEL’:tn OR ‘CARDIOL’:tn OR  ‘CARIDOL’:tn OR ‘CARLICH’:tn OR ‘CARVANJA’:tn OR ‘CARVE TAD’:tn OR ‘CARVE -Q’:tn OR  ‘CARVEDIGAMMA’:tn OR ‘CARVEDILEN’:tn OR ‘CARVEDILOL’:tn OR ‘CARVEDILOL -’:tn OR  ‘CARVEDILOLO’:tn OR ‘CARVELOL’:tn OR ‘CARVEPEN’:tn OR ‘CARVERATIO’:tn OR ‘CARVESAN’:tn OR  ‘CARVETREND’:tn OR ‘CARVIDEX’:tn OR ‘CARVOL’:tn OR ‘CARVSANNA’:tn OR ‘COLVER’:tn OR  ‘COROPRES’:tn OR ‘CORYOL’:tn OR ‘CURCIX’:tn OR ‘DILATREND’:tn OR ‘DILBLOC’:tn OR ‘DILBLOC  IC’:tn OR ‘DIMITONE’:tn OR ‘EUCARDIC’:tn OR ‘GLADYCOR’:tn OR ‘HYPOTEN’:tn OR ‘KARVIDIL’:tn OR  ‘KARWEDILOL’:tn OR ‘KREDEX’:tn OR ‘MIOCARVIL’:tn OR ‘NORMOTRIDE’:tn OR ‘OCAROX’:tn OR  ‘OMERIA’:tn OR ‘QUERTO’:tn OR ‘SYMTREND’:tn OR ‘TALLITON’:tn OR ‘TEDILOL 12,5 MG’:tn OR ‘  CARVEDILOL’:tn OR ‘TRAKOR’:tn OR ‘VIVACOR’:tn OR ‘ACRIDILOLE’:tn OR ‘ANISTO’:tn OR  ‘ARTIONE’:tn OR ‘ARTIST’:tn OR ‘ATENOTE’:tn OR ‘AVEDOL’:tn OR ‘BICOL’:tn OR ‘CADIL’:tn OR  ‘CARATEN’:tn OR ‘CARDILOL’:tn OR ‘CARDIOL’:tn OR ‘CARDIVAS’:tn OR ‘CARLOC’:tn OR ‘CARVEDIL’:tn  OR ‘CARVEDILAT’:tn OR ‘CARVEDILEN’:tn OR ‘CARVEDILOL’:tn OR ‘CARVEDILOL -MEPHA’:tn OR  ‘CARVEDILOLO’:tn OR ‘CARVETREND’:tn OR ‘CARVIDEX’:tn OR ‘COREG’:tn OR ‘CORYOL’:tn OR  ‘DILATREND’:tn OR ‘DILBLOC’:tn OR ‘DIMETIL’:tn OR ‘DIMITONE’:tn OR ‘DIVELOL’:tn OR  ‘EUCARDIC’:tn OR ‘FILTEN’:tn OR ‘HYPOTEN’:tn OR ‘ICTUS’:tn OR ‘KREDEX’:tn OR ‘MILENOL’:tn OR  ‘QUERTO’:tn OR ‘TALLITON’:tn OR ‘VERATEN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 112/368   OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   66. Timolol   ‘TIMOLOL’ OR ‘TYMOLOL’ OR ‘TIMOLOLS’ OR ‘TIMOLOLIS’ OR ‘TIMOLOLUM’  OR ‘TIMOLOLO’ OR  ‘TÍMÓLÓL’ OR ‘TIMOLOLI’ OR ‘TIMOLOOL’ OR ‘AMIPTIC’:tn OR ‘ARUTIDOR’:tn OR ‘ARUTIMOL’:tn OR  ‘ARZOTILOL’:tn OR ‘AZARGA’:tn OR ‘BATIDOR’:tn OR ‘BETIM’:tn OR ‘BLOCADREN’:tn OR  ‘BLOCANOL’:tn OR ‘BLUTIM’:tn OR ‘BRIMONIDINA + TIMOLOL’:tn OR ‘BRIMONIDINE  TARTRATE/TIMOLOL’:tn OR ‘BRIMONIDINTARTRAT/TIMOLOL’:tn OR ‘BRIMOPLUS’:tn OR  ‘CANDOTIM’:tn OR ‘CHIBRO -TIMOPTOL’:tn OR ‘COMBIGAN’:tn OR ‘COSOPT’:tn OR ‘COSTAD’:tn OR  ‘CUSIMOLOL’:tn OR ‘D R O P T I M O L’:tn OR ‘DOLOPT PLUS’:tn OR ‘DORLEDE’:tn OR ‘DORTIM - POS’:tn OR ‘DORTIMVISION’:tn OR ‘DORZASTAD’:tn OR ‘DORZO PLUS’:tn OR ‘DORZO TIM’:tn OR  ‘DORZOCOMP -VISION’:tn OR ‘DORZOGEN COMBI’:tn OR ‘DORZOLAMID + TIMOLOL’:tn OR  ‘DORZOLAMID COMP’:tn OR ‘DORZOLAMID HEXAL’:tn OR ‘DORZOLAMIDA/TIMOLOL’:tn OR  ‘DORZOLAMIDATIMOLOL’:tn OR ‘DORZOLAMIDE E TIMOLOLO EG’:tn OR ‘DORZOLAMIDE TIMOLOLO’:tn  OR ‘DORZOLAMIDĂ /TIMOLOL ‘:tn OR ‘DORZOLEP KOMB’:tn OR ‘DORZON COMP’:tn OR ‘DORZOPTIC  PLUS’:tn OR ‘DORZORATIO COMP AUGENTROPFEN’:tn OR ‘DORZOTIM’:tn OR ‘DOTICOL’:tn OR  ‘DOTI’:tn OR ‘DOTIZ’:tn OR ‘DOTIZOLIL’:tn OR ‘DOZOPRES COMBI’:tn OR ‘DOZOTIMA’:tn OR  ‘DROPZOL TIM’:tn OR ‘DUALKOPT’:tn OR ‘DUOKOPT’:tn OR ‘DUOTRAV’:tn OR ‘EQUITON’:tn OR  ‘FOTIL’:tn OR ‘GANFORT’:tn OR ‘GAOPTOL’:tn OR ‘GELTIM’:tn OR ‘GLAMZOLID’:tn OR ‘GLAUCOL’:tn OR  ‘GLAUKOSTAD’:tn OR ‘GLAUMAX’:tn OR ‘GLAUTIM’:tn OR ‘GLOPTIC’:tn OR ‘HUMA -TIMOLOL’:tn OR  ‘IALUTIM’:tn OR ‘KIRANOL’:tn OR ‘LITHIMOLE’:tn OR ‘LOYADA’:tn OR ‘MARDOZIA’:tn OR ‘NODOM  COMBI’:tn OR ‘NYOGEL’:tn OR ‘NYOLOL’:tn OR ‘OFTAN’:tn OR ‘OFTENSIN’:tn OR ‘OFTIDORIX’:tn OR  ‘OFTIMOLO’:tn OR ‘OPHTIM’:tn OR ‘OPTIKUM’:tn OR ‘OPTIMOL’:tn OR ‘OPTODROP -CO’:tn OR  ‘PHARDINOL’:tn OR ‘PILOBLOQ’:tn OR ‘PRESTIM’:tn OR ‘PROTIZOL’:tn OR ‘ROZACOM’:tn OR  ‘SIFIOPT’:tn OR ‘TAPTIQOM’:tn OR ‘TENSOC’:tn OR ‘TIDOMAT’:tn OR ‘TIM -ALCON’:tn OR ‘TIMABAK’:tn  OR ‘TIMACOR’:tn OR ‘TIMALEN’:tn OR ‘TIMDOLUX’:tn OR ‘TIMO’:tn OR ‘TIMO UD’:tn OR  ‘TIMOCOMOD’:tn OR ‘TIMOFLUID’:tn OR ‘TIMOFTAL’:tn OR ‘TIMOGEL’:tn OR ‘TIMOGLAU’:tn OR  ‘TIMOGLAUCON’:tn OR ‘TIMOHEXAL’:tn OR ‘TIMOLABAK’:tn OR ‘TIMOLEN’:tn OR ‘TIMOLOL’:tn OR  ‘TIMOLOL + DORZOLAMIDA’:tn OR ‘TIMOLOL -POS’:tn OR ‘TIMOLOLO’:tn OR ‘TIMOPHAR’:tn OR  ‘TIMOPHTAL’:tn OR ‘TIMOPTIC’:tn OR ‘TIMOPTOL’:tn OR ‘TIMOSAN’:tn OR ‘TIOPEX’:tn OR ‘TIRZOPT’:tn  OR ‘TYMOLAMID’:tn OR ‘UNITIMOLOL’:tn OR ‘VENTURAX’:tn OR ‘VISTAMOL’:tn OR ‘VISTATIMOL’:tn OR  ‘WAUCOSIN’:tn OR ‘YESAN’:tn OR ‘ZORTAM’:tn OR ‘TIMOL’:tn OR ‘TIMOP’:tn OR ‘ARUTIMOL’:tn OR  ‘AZARGA’:tn OR ‘BETIM’:tn OR ‘BLOCADREN’:tn OR ‘CHIBRO -TIMOPTOL’:tn OR ‘COMBIGAN’:tn OR  ‘COSOPT’:tn OR ‘DORZO -TIMOP APO’:tn OR ‘DORZOLAMID HEXAL’:tn OR ‘DRUSOLOL’:tn OR ‘DUO  TRAVATAN’:tn OR ‘FLUMETOL’:tn OR ‘GLALFITAL’:tn OR ‘GLAUCOTENSIL’:tn OR ‘GLAUCOTRAT’:tn OR  ‘GLAUTIMOL (TIMOLOL)’:tn OR ‘IOTIM’:tn OR ‘ISTALOL’:tn OR ‘ -TIMOLOL’:tn OR ‘NYOGEL’:tn OR  ‘NYOLOL’:tn OR ‘OFTAN’:tn OR ‘OPTIMOL’:tn OR ‘PMS -TIMOLOL’:tn OR ‘POENTIMOL’:tn OR  ‘PRESTIM’:tn OR ‘RYSMON’:tn OR ‘TENOPT’:tn OR ‘TILOPTIC’:tn OR ‘TIMABAK’:tn OR ‘TIMALEN’:tn OR  ‘TIMO’:tn OR ‘TIMOGEL’:tn OR ‘TIMOLAST’:tn OR ‘TIMOLEATE’:tn OR ‘TIMOLOL’:tn OR ‘TIMOPTIC’:tn  OR ‘TIMOPTOL’:tn OR ‘TIMOSINE’:tn OR ‘TIMPILO’:tn OR ‘V -OPTIC’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 113/368   OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   67. Latanoprost   ‘LATANOPROST’ OR ‘LATAN OPROSTA’ OR ‘LATANOPROSTUM’ OR ‘LATANOP ROST’ OR ‘LATANOPROSTU’  OR ‘LATANOPROSTAS’ OR ‘LATANOPROSTO’ OR ‘LATA NOPROSTUM’ OR ‘LATANOPROST’ OR  ‘LATANOPROSZT’ OR ‘LATANOPROSZTOT’ OR ‘LATANOPROST’ OR ‘LATAN OPROSTIA’ OR  ‘LATANOPROSTI’ OR ‘AKISTAN’ :tn OR ‘ALATOPRAN’ :tn OR ‘LATAPROX’ :tn OR ‘APOLATIMOL’:tn OR  ‘ARUCOM’:tn OR ‘ARULATAN’:tn OR ‘BIGLATAN’:tn OR ‘DROPLACOMB’:tn OR ‘ECUTOL’:tn OR  ‘ENICIL’:tn OR ‘EXPROSOL’:tn OR ‘FANTEX’:tn OR ‘GALAXIA’:tn OR ‘GLAK’:tn OR ‘GLAUCOTIMA’:tn OR  ‘GLAUKODOC’:tn OR ‘GLAUPROSTOL’:tn OR ‘GLAUTAN’:tn OR ‘GLAUTAXER’:tn OR ‘HUMA -TALIA’:tn OR  ‘IMOLAST’:tn OR ‘IOPIZE’:tn OR ‘LANOTAN’:tn OR ‘LANTANOPROST/TIMOLOL’:tn OR ‘LAPROL’:tn OR  ‘LAPROSEP’:tn OR ‘LATACOM’:tn OR ‘LATACOMP’:tn OR ‘LATACRIS’:tn OR ‘LATAGLAUCON’:tn OR  ‘LATALUX’:tn OR ‘LATAN -OPHTAL’:tn OR ‘LATANAX’:tn OR ‘LATANCOM’:tn OR ‘LATANEAU’:tn OR  ‘LATANO PLUS T’:tn OR ‘LATANO -POS’:tn OR ‘LATANO -Q’:tn OR ‘LATANO -VISION’:tn OR  ‘LATANOMED’:tn OR ‘LATANOMOL’:tn OR ‘LATANOPROS/TIMOLOL’:tn OR ‘LATANOPROST’:tn OR  ‘LATANOPROST + TIMOLOL’:tn OR ‘LATANOPROST E TIMOLOLO’:tn OR ‘LATANORATIO’:tn OR  ‘LATANOST’:tn OR ‘LATANOSTAD COMP’:tn OR ‘LATANOTEARS’:tn OR ‘LATANOTIM -VISION’:tn OR  ‘LATANOX’:tn OR ‘LATANSOC ‘:tn OR ‘LATAPRES’:tn OR ‘LATATIM’:tn OR ‘LATAY’:tn OR ‘LATAZ’:tn OR  ‘LATEYE’:tn OR ‘LATIFICOM’:tn OR ‘LATIM POS’:tn OR ‘LATIOTIM’:tn OR ‘LATIRA’:tn OR ‘LATIZOLIL’:tn  OR ‘LATOP’:tn OR ‘LATOXAP’:tn OR ‘MACUSIX’:tn OR ‘MILEPROST’:tn OR ‘MONOPOST’:tn OR  ‘MONOPROST’:tn OR ‘OCCHISTIL’:tn OR ‘OCUSYNT’:tn OR ‘OFTASTAD’:tn OR ‘OPTOPRESSOLOL’:tn OR  ‘PHARMAPROST’:tn OR ‘PHARMECOL’:tn OR ‘POLPROST’:tn OR ‘POLPROST PLUS’:tn OR ‘PRECISA’:tn  OR ‘PROXAL’:tn OR ‘RAFANIX’:tn OR ‘ROZAPROST’:tn OR ‘SOLUSIN’:tn OR ‘STADOLATAN’:tn OR  ‘TANOF’:tn OR ‘TAVU’:tn OR ‘TEVIOPLUS’:tn OR ‘THEAPROST’:tn OR ‘TIMLATAN’:tn OR  ‘TIMOLATEARS’:tn OR ‘TIMPROST’:tn OR ‘TINOPROST’:tn OR ‘TONLIT’:tn OR ‘UNILAT’:tn OR  ‘VLEPOLIN’:tn OR ‘X -IOP’:tn OR ‘XALACOM’:tn OR ‘XALAPLUS’:tn OR ‘XALAPROST’:tn OR ‘XALATAN’:tn  OR ‘XALCOM’:tn OR ‘XALIBUR’:tn OR ‘XALOPTIC’:tn OR ‘XALOPTIC COMBI’:tn OR ‘XALOPTICOM’:tn OR  ‘XALOST’:tn OR ‘XELOR’:tn OR ‘ZAKOPROST’:tn OR ‘LATANOPROST’:tn OR ‘CO -LATANOPROST’:tn OR  ‘GLAUTAN’:tn OR ‘HYSITE’:tn OR ‘LATANOPROST’:tn OR ‘LATANOX’:tn OR ‘LATAPRES’:tn OR  ‘PROXAL’:tn OR ‘XALACOM’:tn OR ‘XALATAN’:tn OR ‘XALCOM’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 114/368   hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   68. Salicylic Acid   ‘SALICYLIC ACID’ OR ‘SALICÍLICO, ÁCIDO’ OR ‘SALIZYLSÄURE’ OR ‘ACIDUM SALICYLICUM’ OR  ‘SALISYYLIHAPPO’ OR ‘ACIDO ORTÓXIBENZOICO’ OR ‘SALICYLSYRA’ OR ‘SALICILNA KISLINA’ OR  ‘KYSELINA SALICYLOVÁ’ OR ‘ACIDUM SALICYLICUM’ OR ‘SALICILNA KISLINA’ OR ‘ACID SALICILIC’ OR  ‘ÁCIDO SALICÍLICO’ OR ‘KWASU SALICYLOWEGO’ OR ‘KWAS SALICYLOWY’ OR ‘SALICYLSYRE’ OR  ‘SALISYLSYRE’ OR ‘SALICYLZUUR’ OR ‘SALICYLIC ACID’ OR ‘SALICILSKĀBES’ OR ‘SALICILSKĀBE’ OR  ‘SALICILO RŪGŠTIS’ OR ‘SALICILO RŪGŠTIES’ OR ‘ACIDO SALICILICO’ OR ‘SALISÝLSÝRA’ OR  ‘SZALICILSAV’ OR ‘SALICILATNA KISELINA’ OR ‘SALICYLIC ACID’ OR ‘ACIDE SALICYLIQUE’ OR  ‘SALISYYLIHAPPO’ OR ‘SALITSÜÜLHAPE’ OR ‘SALITSÜÜLHAPET’ OR ‘ÁCIDO SALICÍLICO’ OR  ‘SALICYLSÄURE’ OR ‘SALICYLSYRE’ OR ‘ACIDUM SALICYLICUM’ OR ‘ABE’ OR ‘ACERBINE’:tn OR  ‘ACIFUNGIN’:tn OR ‘ACIFUNGIN FORTE’:tn OR ‘ACNISAL’:tn OR ‘ACO ACNEGEL’:tn OR ‘ACO  ACNELÖSNING’:tn OR ‘ACTIKERALL’:tn OR ‘ADAPTOPLAST’:tn OR ‘ALGESAL’:tn OR ‘ALPICORT’:tn OR  ‘ANAXERYL’:tn OR ‘ANTALYRE’:tn OR ‘ANTIMYCO -ACID VT’:tn OR ‘ANTIVERRUGAS’:tn OR  ‘APSODERM’:tn OR ‘BAZUKA’:tn OR ‘BEDICORT A’:tn OR ‘BEDICORT SALIC’:tn OR ‘BEDIKERTAL’:tn OR  ‘BELOSALIC’:tn OR ‘BENZOIC ACID’:tn OR ‘BETADERMIC’:tn OR ‘BETAMETHASON COMP’:tn OR ‘BOOTS  CORN PAINT AND PADS’:tn OR ‘BRODACID’:tn OR ‘BÁLSAMO ANALGÉSICO’:tn OR ‘BÁLSAMO  SANITAS’:tn OR ‘CALICIDA INDIANO’:tn OR ‘CALICIDA MORENO’:tn OR ‘CALLICIDA KENDU’:tn OR  ‘CALLICIDA NAION’:tn OR ‘CALLOUS REMOVAL’:tn OR ‘CALLUS REMOVAL’:tn OR ‘CALLÍVORO  MARTHAND’:tn OR ‘CAPASAL THERAPEUTIC’:tn OR ‘CAPSIGEL N’:tn OR ‘CARNATION CALLOUS  CAPS’:tn OR ‘CARNATION CORN CAPS’:tn OR ‘CARNATION VERICAP VERRUCA’:tn OR ‘CARNATION  VERRUCA CAPS’:tn OR ‘CLABIN N’:tn OR ‘CLABIN PLUS’:tn OR ‘COLLOMACK TOPICAL’:tn OR  ‘COMPUND V’:tn OR ‘CORICIDE LE DIABLE’:tn OR ‘CORN & CALLUS’:tn OR ‘CORN AND CALLOUS’:tn OR  ‘CORN REMOVAL’:tn OR ‘CORN SOLVENT’:tn OR ‘CUPLEX VERRUCA’:tn OR ‘DERMACIDE’:tn OR  ‘DERMATAR’:t n OR ‘DERNILAN’:tn OR  ‘DEZOROL’:tn OR ‘DIPROSALIC’:tn OR ‘DONALG’:tn OR  ‘DUOFILM’:tn OR ‘ELOCOM PLUS’:tn OR ‘ELOSALIC’:tn OR ‘FERTOMCIDINA U’:tn OR ‘FEUILLE DE  SAULE CORICIDE VERRUCIDE LIQUIDE’:tn OR ‘FEUILLE DE SAULE TOUT PRET COR’:tn OR ‘FEUILLE DE  SAULE TOUT PRET DURILLON’:tn OR ‘FEUILLE DE SAULE, EMPALTRE’:tn OR ‘FORMULE W’:tn OR  ‘GARGARISMA PROPHYLACTICUM AFLOFARM’:tn OR ‘GRANUPAS’:tn OR ‘HASCERAL’:tn OR ‘HEDERA’:tn  OR ‘HORNHAUT SCHÄLSALBE’:tn OR ‘HÜHNERAUGENPFLASTER’:tn OR ‘IONIL T’:tn OR ‘KERAFILM’:tn  OR ‘KERAFILMVER’:tn OR ‘KERASAL’:tn OR ‘KERATOP’:tn OR ‘KUTERID SALICIL’:tn OR  ‘LAURODERME’:tn OR ‘LINIMENTO NAION’:tn OR ‘LOCALONE’:tn OR ‘LOCASALEN’:tn OR ‘LORINDEN  A’:tn OR ‘LOSALEN’:tn OR ‘MAŚĆ NA ODCISKI’:tn OR ‘MICOFOOT’:tn OR ‘MOBILAT’:tn OR  ‘MOBILAT’:tn OR ‘MOMESALIC’:tn OR ‘MONSALIC’:tn OR ‘MOVELAT’:tn OR ‘MOVILAT PLUS’:tn OR  ‘NERISALIC’:tn OR ‘OCCLUSAL’:tn OR ‘OPSOR’:tn OR ‘OPTREX’:tn OR ‘PARAMINO -CORAZIDA’:tn OR  ‘PAS-FATOL N’:tn OR ‘PASTA COOL’:tn OR ‘PASTA CYNKOWA Z KWASEM SALICYLOWYM’:tn OR ‘PASTA  ZINCI OXYDATI SALICYLATA’:tn OR ‘PEDICOL’:tn OR ‘PHYTEX PAINT’:tn OR ‘PICKLES’:tn OR ‘PLASTER  NA ODCISKI’:tn OR ‘POLFUNGICID’:tn OR ‘POMMADE M.O. COCHON’:tn OR ‘PROPIOSALIC’:tn OR  ‘PSODERMIL’:tn OR ‘PSORALON MT’:tn OR ‘P SORIN OINTMENT’:tn OR ‘PYOLYSIN ’:tn OR ‘PYRALVEX’:tn  OR ‘PŁYN NA ODCISKI’:tn OR ‘QUINODERMIL AS’:tn OR ‘RADO -SALIL’:tn OR ‘SAL -EKARZIN’:tn OR  ‘SALACTOL’:tn OR ‘SALATAC’:tn OR ‘SALI -DECODERM’:tn OR ‘SALICYL -VASELIN’:tn OR ‘SALICYLIC’:tn  OR ‘SALICYLOL’:tn OR ‘SALICYLVASELINE’:tn OR ‘SALSYVASE’:tn OR ‘SANITOS’:tn OR ‘SEBCO’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 115/368   ‘SEVOREX’:tn OR ‘SICOMBYL’:tn OR ‘SODERM PLUS’:tn OR ‘SOLUTIO ACIDI SALICYLICI  SPIRITUOSA’:tn OR ‘SOPHTAL’:tn OR ‘SPARSORIUM ANTISUDORICUM’:tn OR ‘SPIRITUS  SALICYLATUS’:tn OR ‘SPIRYTUS SALICYLOWY’:tn OR ‘SYNTHOL’:tn OR ‘TCP ANTISPETIC’:tn OR  ‘TERMOSAN’:tn OR ‘THWART’:tn OR ‘TRANS -VER-SAL’:tn OR ‘TRANSVERCID’:tn OR  ‘TRIAMCINOLON’:tn OR ‘UNGUENTO MORRY’:tn OR ‘UNGUENTUM’:tn OR ‘VEREL’:tn OR ‘VERRUCA  HERMAL’:tn OR ‘VERRUCID’:tn OR ‘VERRUFILM’:tn OR ‘VERRUGON’:tn OR ‘VERRUMAL’:tn OR  ‘VERRUPAN’:tn OR ‘VERRUPATCH’:tn OR ‘VERRUPLAN’:tn OR ‘VERUCID’:tn OR ‘VERUFIL’:tn OR  ‘VERUNEC’:tn OR ‘VIPROSAL B’:tn OR ‘VOLON A’:tn OR ‘VÅRTMEDEL DNE’:tn OR ‘WARTEX’:tn OR  ‘ZINO’:tn OR ‘ACTIKERALL’:tn OR ‘BELOSALIC’:tn OR ‘BETADERMIC’:tn OR ‘CARNATION CORN  CAPS’:tn OR ‘CLEARASIL’:tn OR ‘DERMAREST’:tn OR ‘DIPROSALIC’:tn OR ‘DUOFILM’:tn OR ‘DUOFILM  PLANTAR’:tn OR ‘ELOSALIC’:tn OR ‘IONIL T’:tn OR ‘MEDIPLAST’:tn OR ‘MOBILAT’:tn OR ‘NERISALIC’:tn  OR ‘NEUTROGENA OIL FREE ACNE WASH’:tn OR ‘OCCLUSAL’:tn OR ‘OXY CLEANSING’:tn OR ‘PASER’:tn  OR ‘PYRALVEX’:tn OR ‘RATIO -TOPISALIC’:tn OR ‘SALEX’:tn OR ‘SALSYVASE’:tn OR ‘SALVAX’:tn OR  ‘SCHOLL’:tn OR ‘SEBCUR -T’:tn OR ‘SEBULEX’:tn OR ‘SELSUN BLUE DEEP CLEANSING MICRO -BEAD  SCRUB’:tn OR ‘T/GEL’:tn OR ‘T/SAL’:tn OR ‘TOPISALEN’:tn OR ‘TRIAMCINOLON’:tn OR ‘VERRUMAL’:tn  OR ‘VOLON A’:tn OR ‘WHITFIELDS’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   69. Metronidazole   ‘METRONIDAZOLE’ OR ‘METRONIDAZOL’ OR ‘METRO NIDAZOL’ OR ‘METRONIDAZOLU’ OR   ‘METRONIDAZOLS’ OR ‘METRONIDAZOLA’ OR ‘METRONIDAZOLUM’ OR ‘METRONIDAZOLAS’ OR  ‘METRONIDAZOLO’ OR ‘METRONIDAZOLUM’ OR ‘METRO NIDAZOLO’ OR ‘METRONIDAZOL’ OR  ‘MÉTRONIDAZOLE’ OR ‘METRONIDATSOLI’ OR ‘METRONIDASOOLI’ OR ‘METRONIDASOOL’ OR  ‘METR ONIDAZOL’ OR ‘METRONIDAZOLUM’ OR ‘ACEA’:tn OR ‘ANAEROBEX’:tn OR ‘ARILIN’:tn OR ‘BI - MISSILOR’:tn OR ‘BLASTOESTIMULINA’:tn OR ‘COLPOCIN -T’:tn OR ‘DEFLAMON’:tn OR ‘DUMOZOL’:tn  OR ‘EFLORAN’:tn OR ‘EMEDAL’:tn OR ‘ENTIZOL’:tn OR ‘FLAGYL’:tn OR ‘FLAGYL ‘:tn OR ‘FLAZOLE’:tn  OR ‘GNOSTOL’:tn OR ‘GRINAZOLE’:tn OR ‘GYNALGIN’:tn OR ‘GYNOPLIX’:tn OR ‘IMIZINE’:tn OR  ‘KLION’:tn OR ‘KLONT’:tn OR ‘MECLODIN’:tn OR ‘MECLON’:tn OR ‘MEDAZOL’:tn OR  ‘METONIDAZOLE’:tn OR ‘METRAN 200’:tn OR ‘METRAZOL’:tn OR ‘METRIS’:tn OR ‘METROCOL’:tn OR  ‘METRODERME’:tn OR ‘METROGALEN’:tn OR ‘METROGEL’:tn OR ‘METROGENE’:tn OR ‘METROGYL’:tn OR  ‘METROLOTION’:tn OR ‘METROLYL’:tn OR ‘METRONIDAZOL’:tn OR ‘METRONIDAZOLE’:tn OR  ‘METRONIDAZOLE -SPIRAMYCIN’:tn OR ‘METRONIDAZOLE/NORMA’:tn OR ‘METRONIDAZOLO’:tn OR  ‘METROSA’:tn OR ‘METROTOP’:tn OR ‘MISSILOR’:tn OR ‘NIDAGYL’:tn OR ‘NIDAZEA’:tn OR ‘PYLERA’:tn     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 116/368   OR ‘RHODOGIL’:tn OR ‘ROBAZ’:tn OR ‘RODERMIL’:tn OR ‘RODOGYL’:tn OR ‘ROSACED’:tn OR  ‘ROSAZOL’:tn OR ‘ROSICED’:tn OR ‘ROZACREME’:tn OR ‘ROZAGEL’:tn OR ‘ROZAMET’:tn OR ‘ROZEX’:tn  OR ‘SPIRAMYCINE METRONIDAZOLE’:tn OR ‘SUPPLIN’:tn OR ‘TERGYNAN’:tn OR ‘TRICHEX’:tn OR  ‘TRICHOPOL’:tn OR ‘TRICODAZOLE’:tn OR ‘TRIKOZOL’:tn OR ‘TRYPLERA’:tn OR ‘VAGI -METRO’:tn OR  ‘VAGILEN’:tn OR ‘VAGIMID’:tn OR ‘VAGINYL’:tn OR ‘ZIDOVAL’:tn OR ‘ZIDOVALTM’:tn OR ‘ZYOMET’:tn  OR ‘METRONIDAZOLE’:tn OR ‘ARILIN’:tn OR ‘ASUZOL’:tn OR ‘BIRODOGYL’:tn OR ‘EFLORAN’:tn OR  ‘ELYZOL’:tn OR ‘ENTIZOL’:tn OR ‘FLAGYL’:tn OR ‘FLAGYSTATIN’:tn OR ‘FLAZOLE’:tn OR ‘KLION’:tn OR  ‘MENILET’:tn OR ‘METAZOL’:tn OR ‘METRAZOL’:tn OR ‘METRAZOLE’:tn OR ‘METROGEL’:tn OR  ‘METROGYL’:tn OR ‘METROLOTION’:tn OR ‘METROLYL’:tn OR ‘METRONIDAZOL’:tn OR  ‘METRONIDAZOLE’:tn OR ‘METRONIDE’:tn OR ‘NEO -PENOTRAN’:tn OR ‘NIDAGEL’:tn OR ‘NORITATE’:tn  OR ‘ORVAGIL’:tn OR ‘PERILOX’:tn OR ‘PYLERA’:tn OR ‘RODERMIL’:tn OR ‘RODOGYL’:tn OR  ‘ROSASOL’:tn OR ‘ROZA’:tn OR ‘ROZEX’:tn OR ‘TRICHAZOLE’:tn OR ‘TRICHOPOL’:tn OR  ‘VANDAZOLE’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR  'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   70. Budesonide   ‘BUDESONIDE’ OR ‘BUDESONID’ OR ‘BUDEZONIDA’ OR ‘BUDEZONID’ OR ‘BUDEZONIDU’ OR  ‘BUDESONIDA’ OR ‘BUDEZONIDU’ OR ‘BUDEZONID’ OR ‘BUDESONID’ OR ‘BUDEZONĪDA’ OR  ‘BUDEZONĪDS’ OR ‘BUDEZONIDAS’ OR ‘ BUDESONIDUM’ OR ‘BUDEZONID’ OR ‘BÚIDÉISEANÓID’ OR  ‘BUDÉSONIDE’ OR ‘BUDESONIDI’ OR ‘B UDESONIIDI’ OR ‘BUDESONIID’ OR ‘BUDESÓNIDA’ OR   ‘BUDESONIDUM’ OR ‘ABELITAN’:tn OR ‘ACORSPRAY’:tn OR ‘AEROX’:tn OR ‘AEROX JET’:tn OR  ‘AIRCORT’:tn OR ‘AQUACORT’:tn OR ‘AURID’:tn OR ‘AXELOVERT’:tn OR ‘BIDIEN’:tn OR ‘BIOSONIDE’:tn  OR ‘BODINET’:tn OR ‘BODIX’:tn OR ‘BUDAPP NASAL’:tn OR ‘BUDELIN NOVOLIZER’:tn OR ‘BUDENA’:tn  OR ‘BUDENITE’:tn OR ‘BUDENOBRONCH’:tn OR ‘BUDENOFALK’:tn OR ‘BUDENOFALK UNO’:tn OR  ‘BUDEPROL’:tn OR ‘BUDERATIO’:tn OR ‘BUDERHIN’:tn OR ‘BUDES’:tn OR ‘BUDESODERM’:tn OR  ‘BUDESOGEN’:tn OR ‘BUDESONAL’:tn OR ‘BUDESONIDE’:tn OR ‘BUDESONIDE’:tn OR ‘BUDEXAN’:tn OR  ‘BUDIAIR’:tn OR ‘BUDIAIR JET’:tn OR ‘BUDINEB’:tn OR ‘BUDO -SAN’:tn OR ‘BUFOMIX EASYHALER’:tn  OR ‘BUPARID’:tn OR ‘BUTEKONT’:tn OR ‘CORAMEN’:tn OR ‘CORTIMENT’:tn OR ‘CORTIMENTMMX’:tn OR  ‘CYCLOCAPS’:tn OR ‘DESONAIR’:tn OR ‘DESONIX’:tn OR ‘ELTAIR’:tn OR ‘EOLAN’:tn OR  ‘EPICUTANTEST -TROLAB D2504’:tn OR ‘ESONIDE’:tn OR ‘FARLIDONE’:tn OR ‘FORMOTEROL FUMARATE  DIHYDRATE + BUDESONIDE’:tn OR ‘FRENOLYN’:tn OR ‘GIONA EASYHALER’:tn OR ‘INTESTICORT’:tn  OR ‘INTESTIFALK UNO’:tn OR ‘KABUD’:tn OR ‘KESOL’:tn OR ‘LARBEX’:tn OR ‘LISOBRON’:tn OR  ‘MIFLO’:tn OR ‘MIFLONID’:tn OR ‘MIFLONIDE’:tn OR ‘MIFLONIL’:tn OR ‘MIKICORT’:tn OR  ‘MINALERG’:tn OR ‘NEBBUD’:tn OR ‘NEBULIN’:tn OR ‘NOVOLIZER’:tn OR ‘NOVOPULM NOVOLIZER’:tn     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 117/368   OR ‘OBECIROL’:tn OR ‘OLFEX BUCAL’:tn OR ‘OLFO HALER’:tn OR ‘OLFOSONIDE’:tn OR ‘OREST  EASYHALER’:tn OR ‘PULMIHAL’:tn OR ‘PULMOTON’:tn OR ‘PULMOVANCE’:tn OR ‘RESATA’:tn OR  ‘RHINOBROS’:tn OR ‘RIBUJET’:tn OR ‘RIBUSPIR’:tn OR ‘RIBUVENT’:tn OR ‘RINOSTER’:tn OR  ‘SERBO’:tn OR ‘SONIDAL’:tn OR ‘TAFEN’:tn OR ‘TALGAN’:tn OR ‘THERASONID’:tn OR ‘TROLAB  E2504’:tn OR ‘UDESOGEL’:tn OR ‘UDESOSPRAY’:tn OR ‘VELORIUM’:tn OR ‘VERICORT’:tn OR  ‘VERNORAL’:tn OR ‘VINECORT’:tn OR ‘XAVIN’:tn OR ‘ZEFECORT’:tn OR ‘ZYOLAIF’:tn OR ‘ALENIA’:tn OR  ‘AQUACORT’:tn OR ‘BENACORT’:tn OR ‘BUDAMAX’:tn OR ‘BUDECORT’:tn OR ‘BUDEFLAM’:tn OR  ‘BUDENA’:tn OR ‘BUDENIT STERI -NEB’:tn OR ‘BUDENOFALK’:tn OR ‘BUDES’:tn OR ‘BUDESON’:tn OR  ‘BUDESONID -’:tn OR ‘BUDESONIDA’:tn OR ‘BUDESONIDE’:tn OR ‘BUDICORT’:tn OR ‘BUSONID’:tn OR  ‘BUTACORT’:tn OR ‘CORTINASAL’:tn OR ‘ENTOCORD’:tn OR ‘ENTOCORT’:tn OR ‘FORADIL COMBI’:tn  OR ‘FORASEQ’:tn OR ‘FREVIA’:tn OR ‘INFLAMMIDE’:tn OR ‘KESOL’:tn OR ‘MIFLONID’:tn OR  ‘MIFLONIDE’:tn OR ‘MIFLONIL’:tn OR ‘ -BUDESONIDE AQ’:tn OR ‘NEUMOTEROL’:tn OR ‘NOEX’:tn OR  ‘NOVOPULMON’:tn OR ‘PULMICORT’:tn OR ‘RAFTON’:tn OR ‘RHINOCORT’:tn OR ‘SPIROCORT’:tn OR  ‘SYMBICORD’:tn OR ‘SYMBICORT’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   71. Dexamethasone   ('DEXAMETASONE' /exp OR 'DEXAMETASONE' OR 'DEXAMETASON' /exp OR 'DEXAMETASON' OR  'DEXAMETAZÓN' OR 'DEXAMETAZONĂ' OR 'DEKSAMETAZON' OR 'DEKSAMETASON' OR  'DEKSAMETAZONO' OR 'DESAMETASONE' OR 'DEXAMETASÓN' OR 'DEXAMETAZON' OR  'DEXAMETHASONE' /exp OR 'DEXAMETHASONE' OR 'DEXAMÉTHASONE' OR 'DEKSAMETASONIA' OR  'DEKSAMETASONI' OR 'DEKSAMETASOONI' OR 'DEXAMETASONA' OR 'DEXAMETHASON' /exp OR  'DEXAMETHASON' OR 'DEXAMETHASONUM' OR 'AFACORT' :tn OR 'ALDYZINE' :tn OR 'ANTILERG -F':tn  OR 'ATRIA' :tn OR 'AURICULARUM' :tn OR 'CAPITAL' :tn OR 'CHLORAPRED' :tn OR 'CLORADEX' :tn OR  'COLIRCUSI DEXAMETASONA' :tn OR 'COLIRCUSI GENTADEXA' :tn OR 'CORTI ARSCOLLOID' :tn OR  'CORTI BICIRON N' :tn OR 'CORTIDEXASON' :tn OR 'CRESOPHENE' :tn OR 'DE ICOL' :tn OR  'DEMEZON' :tn OR 'DESAMETASONE FOSFATO' :tn OR 'DESAMIX EFFE' :tn OR 'DEXA -GENTAMICIN' :tn  OR 'DEXA -OPHTAL SINE' :tn OR 'DEXA -POS':tn OR 'DEXA -':tn OR 'DEXA -RHINASPRAY N' :tn OR 'DEXA - TAVEGIL' :tn OR 'DEXACHLOR' :tn OR 'DEXACOLLYRE' :tn OR 'DEXADENT' :tn OR 'DEXAFLAM' :tn OR  'DEXAFLUID' :tn OR 'DEXAGENT -OPHTAL' :tn OR 'DEXAGENTA -POS':tn OR 'DEXAMED ELIXIR' :tn OR  'DEXAMETASON' :tn OR 'DEXAMONO' :tn OR 'DEXAMYCIN' :tn OR 'DEXAPOLCORT' :tn OR 'DEXAPOLCORT  N':tn OR 'DEXAPOS COMOD' :tn OR 'DEXAPOS N' :tn OR 'DEXATOBROM' :tn OR 'DEXATON' :tn OR  'DEXAVAL' :tn OR 'DISPERSADRON -C':tn OR 'DROPODEX' :tn OR 'EKO' :tn OR 'ETACORTILEN' :tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 118/368   'EUCARYL' :tn OR 'EUCORTEX' :tn OR 'FORTECORTÍN' :tn OR 'GENTADEX' :tn OR  'HEMIDEXAANTIHISTAMÍNICO' :tn OR 'ISOPTO MAXITROL' :tn OR 'ISOPTO -MAX':tn OR 'ISOPTO -DEX':tn  OR 'KÄÄRMEPAKKAUS' :tn OR 'LIPOTALON' :tn OR 'LOFOTO' :tn OR 'LUXAZONE' :tn OR 'MARTAPAN ORAL  SOLUTION' :tn OR 'MEPACYL' :tn OR 'MONODEX' :tn OR 'MONOFREE' :tn OR 'MONOPEX' :tn OR  'MULTODRIN' :tn OR 'NEODEXA' :tn OR 'NEZEFIB' :tn OR 'NYSTALOCAL' :tn OR 'O -BIOTIC' :tn OR  'OFTACORTAL' :tn OR 'OFTALMOLOSA CUSI DE ICOL' :tn OR 'OFTALMOLOSA CUSI DEXAMETASONA' :tn  OR 'OFTAN DEXA' :tn OR 'OPNOL' :tn OR 'OTIX' :tn OR 'OTOBACID N' :tn OR 'OTOCORT' :tn OR  'OTODEC' :tn OR 'OTOMIZE' :tn OR 'PABI' :tn OR 'PERAZONE' :tn OR 'POLYDEXA' :tn OR  'RESORBORINA' :tn OR 'ROCKLES' :tn OR 'RONIC' :tn OR 'SAOCIN -D':tn OR 'SOLDESANIL' :tn OR  'STERDEX' :tn OR 'TAMESAD' :tn OR 'THILODEXINE' :tn OR 'THILOMICIN -DEX':tn OR 'TOBRAMICINA  DESAMETASONE BAUSCH & LOMB' :tn OR 'TOBRAMICINA/DEXAMETASONA BAUSCH & LOMB' :tn OR  'TOBRASONE' :tn OR 'TOBROSOPT -DEX':tn OR 'TUTTOZEM N' :tn OR 'URECORTIN' :tn OR 'USOLDEC' :tn  OR 'VASODEXA' :tn OR 'AK TROL' :tn OR 'ALIN' :tn OR 'ALINDEPOT' :tn OR 'APHTASOLON' :tn OR  'BAYCUTEN' :tn OR 'BAYCUTEN N' :tn OR 'CHIBRO CADRON' :tn OR 'DECADRON' :tn OR  'DECADRONPHOSPHAT' :tn OR 'DECADRONAL' :tn OR 'DECASONE' :tn OR 'DECDAN' :tn OR  'DECTANCYL' :tn OR 'DEKORT' :tn OR 'DERMADEX' :tn OR 'DERSONE' :tn OR 'DEXA' :tn OR 'DEXA - RHINOSPRAY' :tn OR 'DEXASINE' :tn OR 'DEXABENE' :tn OR 'DEXACORT' :tn OR 'DEXACORTAL' :tn OR  'DEXAFAR' :tn OR 'DEXAFENICOL' :tn OR 'DEXAFREE' :tn OR 'DEXALONE' :tn OR 'DEXALTIN' :tn OR  'DEXAMED' :tn OR 'DEXAMETASONA' :tn OR 'DEXAMETHASON' :tn OR 'DEXAMETHASONE' :tn OR  'DEXAMETHAZON' :tn OR 'DEXAMONOZON' :tn OR 'DEXAMYTREX' :tn OR 'DEXART' :tn OR 'DEXASON' :tn  OR 'DEXASONE' :tn OR 'DEXAVEN' :tn OR 'DEXMETHSONE' :tn OR 'DEXONA' :tn OR 'DEXONE' :tn OR  'DEXSOL' :tn OR 'EURASON' :tn OR 'FORTECORTIN' :tn OR 'FRAKIDEX' :tn OR 'FRAMYXONE' :tn OR  'GLYMESASON' :tn OR 'HEXADROL' :tn OR 'ISOPTO -MAXIDEX' :tn OR 'KALMETHASONE' :tn OR  'LANADEXON' :tn OR 'LENADEX' :tn OR 'LIMETHASON' :tn OR 'MAKSIDEKS' :tn OR 'MAXIDEX' :tn OR  'MAXIDROL' :tn OR 'MAXITROL' :tn OR 'MEPHAMESON' :tn OR 'MESADORON' :tn OR 'MOLACORT' :tn OR  'NEO-POLY-DEX':tn OR 'NEODECADRON' :tn OR 'NETILDEX' :tn OR 'NEURALIN' :tn OR 'ONADRON' :tn OR  'ORADEXON' :tn OR 'ORGADRONE' :tn OR 'ORUGADORON' :tn OR 'OTODEX' :tn OR 'OZURDEX' :tn OR  'PERCUTALGINE' :tn OR 'PMS -DEXAMETHASONE' :tn OR 'PRIMADEX' :tn OR 'RATIO - DEXAMETHASONE' :tn OR 'SANTESON' :tn OR 'SOFRACORT' :tn OR 'SOFRADEX' :tn OR 'SOLCORT' :tn OR  'SOLDESAM' :tn OR 'SOLUDECADRON' :tn OR 'SPERSADEX' :tn OR 'TOBRADEX' :tn OR 'UNIDEX' :tn OR  'UNIDEXA' :tn OR 'VISUALIN' :tn OR 'VOALLA':tn) AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 119/368   72. Topiramate   ‘TOPIRAMATE’ OR  ‘TOPIRAMAT’ OR ‘TOPIRAMÁT’ OR ‘TOPIRAMATO’ OR ‘TOPIRAMĀTS’ OR  ‘TOPIRAMĀTA’ OR ‘TOPIRAMATAS’ OR ‘TOPIRAMATO’ OR ‘TOPIRAMATUM’ OR ‘TOPIRAMATO’ OR  ‘TOPIRAMÁT’ OR ‘TOPIRAMAATTIA’ OR ‘TOPIRAMAAT’ OR ‘TOPIRAMATO’ OR ‘TOPIRAMATUM’ OR  ‘ACOMICIL’:tn OR ‘EPIRAMAT’:tn OR ‘EPITOMAX’:tn OR ‘EPITORAM’:tn OR ‘EPTIMAL’:tn OR  ‘ERRAVIA’:tn OR ‘ETOPRO’:tn OR ‘FAGODOL’:tn OR ‘JADIX’:tn OR ‘LEPTAM’:tn OR ‘LETOP’:tn OR  ‘LUSITRAX’:tn OR ‘MARITOP’:tn OR ‘NEXTOP’:tn OR ‘OLANDIC’:tn OR ‘ORITOP’:tn OR ‘PIRALEPS’:tn OR  ‘PIRANTAL’:tn OR ‘PIREPIL’:tn OR ‘SINCRONIL’:tn OR ‘TALOPAM’:tn OR ‘TIRAMAT’:tn OR ‘TOMIX’:tn OR  ‘TOPABEN’:tn OR ‘TOPAMAC’:tn OR ‘TOPAMAX’:tn OR ‘TOPEPIL’:tn OR ‘TOPEPSIL’:tn OR  ‘TOPIBRAIN’:tn OR ‘TOPIEGIS’:tn OR ‘TOPILEK’:tn OR ‘TOPILEPT’:tn OR ‘TOPILEX’:tn OR  ‘TOPIMARK’:tn OR ‘TOPIMAX’:tn OR ‘TOPIRA’:tn OR ‘TOPIRA -Q’:tn OR ‘TOPIRAGAMMA’:tn OR  ‘TOPIRAMA’:tn OR ‘TOPIRAMAAT’:tn OR ‘TOPIRAMAT’:tn OR ‘TOPIRAMATE’:tn OR ‘TOPIRAMATO’:tn OR  ‘TOPIRAMED’:tn OR ‘TOPIRATORE’:tn OR ‘TOPIREF’:tn OR ‘TOPIT’:tn OR ‘TOPRAN’:tn OR ‘TORAMAT’:tn  OR ‘TORLEPTA’:tn OR ‘AMATO’:tn OR ‘ARASID’:tn OR ‘EPIRAMAT’:tn OR ‘EPITOMAX’:tn OR ‘EPITOZ’:tn  OR ‘-TOPIRAMATE’:tn OR ‘RATIO -TOPIRAMATE’:tn OR ‘SURXTOP’:tn OR ‘TAMATE’:tn OR ‘TOPAMAC’:tn  OR ‘TOPAMAX’:tn OR ‘TOPIMAX’:tn OR ‘TOPINA’:tn OR ‘TOPIRAGEN’:tn OR ‘TOPIRAMAT’:tn OR  ‘TOPIRAMATE’:tn OR ‘TOPIRAMED’:tn OR ‘TOPIT’:tn OR ‘TOPLEP’:tn OR ‘TOPUMATE’:tn OR  ‘TROKENDI’:tn OR ‘ÉGIDE’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   73. Bisoprolol   ‘BISOPROLOL’ OR ‘BIS OPROLOLUM’ OR ‘BISOPROLOLO’ OR ‘BIBLOC’ :tn OR ‘BICARDEF’ :tn OR  ‘BIDOP’ :tn OR ‘BILOKORD’ :tn OR ‘BIOGLAN’ :tn OR ‘BIPROL’ :tn OR ‘BISOBEL’ :tn OR ‘BISOBELA’ :tn OR  ‘BISOBLOCK’ :tn OR ‘BISOBLOXUS’ :tn OR ‘BISOCARD’ :tn OR ‘BISOCE’ :tn OR ‘BISOCOR’ :tn OR  ‘BISOGAMMA’ :tn OR ‘BISOHEXAL’ :tn OR ‘BISOMERCK’ :tn OR ‘BISOMYL’ :tn OR ‘BISOP’ :tn OR  ‘BISOPINE’ :tn OR ‘BISOPROACT’ :tn OR ‘BISOPROLANMYL’ :tn OR ‘BISOPROLO LFUMARAAT’:tn OR  ‘BISOR’ :tn OR ‘BISORATIO’ :tn OR ‘BISOSTAD’ :tn OR ‘BISOTENS’ :tn OR ‘BLOKBIS’ :tn OR ‘BOREZ’ :tn  OR ‘BYOL’:tn OR ‘BYOL COR’:tn OR ‘CARAPROL’:tn OR ‘CARDENSIEL’:tn OR ‘CARDICOR’:tn OR  ‘CARDIOCOR’:tn OR ‘CONCOR’:tn OR ‘CONGESCOR’:tn OR ‘CORBIS’:tn OR ‘CORECTIN’:tn OR  ‘CORONAL’:tn OR ‘COVIOGAL’:tn OR ‘DETENSIEL’:tn OR ‘DOREZ’:tn OR ‘EMCOLOL’:tn OR  ‘EMCONCOR’:tn OR ‘EMCOR’:tn OR ‘EMCORDECO’:tn OR ‘EURADAL’:tn OR ‘ISOTEN’:tn OR ‘ISOTEN  MINOR’:tn OR ‘JUTABIS’:tn OR ‘KORDOBIS’:tn OR ‘LIBRACOR’:tn OR ‘LYBROL’:tn OR ‘ORLOC’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 120/368   ‘PLUSCOR’:tn OR ‘RIPIT’:tn OR ‘RIVACOR’:tn OR ‘RIVOCOR’:tn OR ‘SEQUACOR’:tn OR ‘SOBYC’:tn OR  ‘SOBYCOR’:tn OR ‘SOLOC’:tn OR ‘SOPROL’:tn OR ‘TENSEC’:tn OR ‘ BISOPROL’:tn OR ‘TYREZ’:tn OR  ‘ADCO -BISOCOR’:tn OR ‘BIBLOC’:tn OR ‘BICARD’:tn OR ‘BICOR’:tn OR ‘BIDOP’:tn OR ‘BILOCOR’:tn OR  ‘BILOL’:tn OR ‘BIPROL’:tn OR ‘BISCOR’:tn OR ‘BISELECT’:tn OR ‘BISO’:tn OR ‘BISOBLOC’:tn OR  ‘BISOCARD’:tn OR ‘BISOCE’:tn OR ‘BISOCOR’:tn OR ‘BISOGAMMA’:tn OR ‘BISOHEXAL’:tn OR  ‘BISOP’:tn OR ‘BISOPROLOL’:tn OR ‘BISOPROLOLFUMARAAT’:tn OR ‘BISOPROLOLI’:tn OR  ‘BISOSTAD’:tn OR ‘BISPRO’:tn OR ‘BYOL’:tn OR ‘CARDENSIEL’:tn OR ‘CARDICOR’:tn OR ‘CARDILOC’:tn  OR ‘CARDIOCOR’:tn OR ‘CONCOR’:tn OR ‘CONCORE’:tn OR ‘CORBIS’:tn OR ‘CORONAL’:tn OR  ‘DETENSIEL’:tn OR ‘EMCONCOR’:tn OR ‘EMCOR’:tn OR ‘ISOTEN’:tn OR ‘KORTRYTHM’:tn OR ‘LUKE’:tn  OR ‘MAINHEART’:tn OR ‘MAINROL’:tn OR ‘MAINTATE’:tn OR ‘MAINTOWA’:tn OR ‘MEITAT’:tn OR  ‘MONOCOR’:tn OR ‘PRO -BISOPROLOL’:tn OR ‘RIVACOR’:tn OR ‘RIVOCOR’:tn OR ‘BISOPROLOL’:tn OR  ‘SOPROL’:tn OR ‘TENSEC’:tn OR ‘WELL -BI’:tn OR ‘ZEBETA’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   74. Atenolol   ‘ATENOLOL’ OR ‘ATÉNOLOL’ OR ‘2 -[4-[2-HYDROXY -3-(PROPAN -2- YLAMIN O)PROPOXY]PHENYL]ACETAMIDE’ OR ‘ATENOLOLS’ OR ‘ATENOLOLIS’ OR ‘ATENOLOLUM’ OR  ‘ATENOLOLO’ OR ‘ATEANÓLÓL’ OR ‘ATÉNOLOL’ OR ‘ATENOLOLI’ OR ‘ATENOLOOL’ OR ‘ATENOLOLO’ OR  ‘ATECOR’:tn OR ‘ATEHEXAL’:tn OR ‘ATENBLOCK’:tn OR ‘ATENETIC’:tn OR ‘ATENI’:tn OR  ‘ATENIGRON’:tn OR ‘ATENO’:tn OR ‘ATENOBENE’:tn OR ‘ATENOCOR’:tn OR ‘ATENODAN’:tn OR  ‘ATENODEKS’:tn OR ‘ATENOGAMMA’:tn OR ‘ATENOGEN’:tn OR ‘ATENOL’:tn OR ‘ATENOLAN’:tn OR  ‘ATENOLOL’:tn OR ‘ATENOMEL’:tn OR ‘BETA -ADALATE’:tn OR ‘BETATOP’:tn OR ‘BLIKONOL’:tn OR  ‘BLOKIUM’:tn OR ‘BRESBEN’:tn OR ‘CARMIAN’:tn OR ‘CLORTANOL’:tn OR ‘CO -TENIDONE’:tn OR  ‘CUXANORM’:tn OR ‘DEMITENS’:tn OR ‘DIUBE’:tn OR ‘DURATENOL’:tn OR ‘DURATENOL COMP MITE’:tn  OR ‘EUPRES’:tn OR ‘IGROSELES’:tn OR ‘JENATENOL’:tn OR ‘JUVENTAL’:tn OR ‘MESONEX’:tn OR  ‘NEOCARDON’:tn OR ‘NIFATENOL’:tn OR ‘NIFEDIPINE + ATENOLOL’:tn OR ‘NORTENOLOL’:tn OR  ‘ORMIDOL’:tn OR ‘PRINORM’:tn OR ‘SELES BETA’:tn OR ‘SIGABLOC’:tn OR ‘SIGABLOC MITE’:tn OR  ‘SUGAR FREE’:tn OR ‘TAPIFLEX’:tn OR ‘TENCHLOR’:tn OR ‘TENIDON’:tn OR ‘TENOBLOCK’:tn OR  ‘TENOMAX’:tn OR ‘TENOPRIN’:tn OR ‘TENORETIC’:tn OR ‘TENORMIN’:tn OR ‘TENSIBLOCK’:tn OR  ‘TENSOL’:tn OR ‘TRANTOLOL’:tn OR ‘TREDOL’:tn OR ‘TRI -NORMIN’:tn OR ‘UNILOC’:tn OR  ‘VASCOTEN’:tn OR ‘VELORIN’:tn OR ‘ABLOK’:tn OR ‘ADCO -ATENOLOL’:tn OR ‘ADCO -LOTEN’:tn OR  ‘ALCENOL’:tn OR ‘ALMYLAR’:tn OR ‘ANCOREN’:tn OR ‘ANGIPRESS CD’:tn OR ‘ANSELOL’:tn OR  ‘ATEBETA’:tn OR ‘ATECOR’:tn OR ‘ATEDUREX’:tn OR ‘ATEHEXAL’:tn OR ‘ATENBLOCK’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 121/368   ‘ATENDOL’:tn OR ‘ATENEMEAL’:tn OR ‘ATENIDONE’:tn OR ‘ATENIL’:tn OR ‘ATENO’:tn OR ‘ATENOL’:tn  OR ‘ATENOLAN’:tn OR ‘ATENOLOL’:tn OR ‘ATENOLOL/CHLOORTALIDON’:tn OR ‘ATENOLOLO’:tn OR  ‘ATENOMEL’:tn OR ‘ATENOPRESS’:tn OR ‘ATENOR’:tn OR ‘ATEPRESS’:tn OR ‘BETA ADALAT’:tn OR  ‘BETACARD’:tn OR ‘BLOKIUM’:tn OR ‘CO -ATENOLOL’:tn OR ‘COTENOLOL -NEO’:tn OR ‘CUXANORM’:tn  OR ‘DOM -ATENOLOL’:tn OR ‘ENOLOL’:tn OR ‘HAJIME’:tn OR ‘HYPERNOL’:tn OR ‘KATENOMIN’:tn OR  ‘LISMORIES’:tn OR ‘METININ’:tn OR ‘MEZOLMIN’:tn OR ‘MIROBECT’:tn OR ‘ ATENOLOL’:tn OR  ‘NEATENOL’:tn OR ‘NIFELAT’:tn OR ‘NIFETEX’:tn OR ‘NIFTEN’:tn OR ‘NORMITEN’:tn OR ‘NOTEN’:tn OR  ‘NU-ATENOL’:tn OR ‘ORMIDOL’:tn OR ‘PLENACOR’:tn OR ‘PMS -ATENOLOL’:tn OR ‘PRENOLOL’:tn OR  ‘PRINORM’:tn OR ‘RAN -ATENOLOL’:tn OR ‘RATIO -ATENOLOL’:tn OR ‘RIVA -ATENOLOL’:tn OR  ‘SAILAGILE’:tn OR ‘ATENOLOL’:tn OR ‘SAVETENS’:tn OR ‘SELES BETA’:tn OR ‘TARGET’:tn OR  ‘TELOL’:tn OR ‘TEN -BLOKA’:tn OR ‘TENBLOK’:tn OR ‘TENCHLOR’:tn OR ‘TENOBLOCK’:tn OR ‘TENOL’:tn  OR ‘TENOLOL’:tn OR ‘TENOMILOL’:tn OR ‘TENORDATE’:tn OR ‘TENORET’:tn OR ‘TENORETIC’:tn OR  ‘TENORIC’:tn OR ‘TENORMIN’:tn OR ‘TENORMINE’:tn OR ‘TENSIG’:tn OR ‘TENSINOR’:tn OR ‘ - ATENOLOL’:tn OR ‘THERABLOC’:tn OR ‘TOLOL’:tn OR ‘TOWAMIN’:tn OR ‘VASCOTEN’:tn OR  ‘VELORIN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   75. Furosemide   ‘FUROSEMIDE’ OR ‘FUROSE MIDA’ OR ‘FUROSEMID’ OR ‘F UROSEMĪDS’ OR ‘FUROSEMIDUM’ OR   ‘FUROSÉMIDE’ OR ‘FUROSEMIDA’ OR ‘ARIDIL’:tn OR ‘BETASEMID’:tn OR ‘CO -AMILOFRUSE’:tn OR  ‘DIAPHAL’:tn OR ‘DIURAL’:tn OR ‘DIURAPID’:tn OR ‘DIURESAL’:tn OR ‘DIUREX’:tn OR ‘DIUROCARD’:tn  OR ‘EDEMID’:tn OR ‘FLUSS’:tn OR ‘FRUCO’:tn OR ‘FRUMIL’:tn OR ‘FRUSAMIL’:tn OR ‘FRUSEMIDE’:tn  OR ‘FRUSENE’:tn OR ‘FRUSID’:tn OR ‘FRUSIDE’:tn OR ‘FRUSOL’:tn OR ‘FURANTHRIL’:tn OR  ‘FURESIS’:tn OR ‘FURIX’:tn OR ‘FURO -CT’:tn OR ‘FURO -PUREN’:tn OR ‘FURO -SPIROBENE’:tn OR  ‘FUROBETA’:tn OR ‘FUROGAMMA’:tn OR ‘FUROHEXAL’:tn OR ‘FURON’:tn OR ‘FURORESE’:tn OR  ‘FUROSAL’:tn OR ‘FUROSEIMDE’:tn OR ‘FUROSEMID’:tn OR ‘FUROSEMIDA’:tn OR ‘FUROSEMIDE’:tn OR  ‘FUROSER’:tn OR ‘FUROSTAD’:tn OR ‘FURSEMID BELUPO, LIJEKOVI I KOZMETIKA’:tn OR ‘FURSEMID  FORTE’:tn OR ‘FUSID’:tn OR ‘HYDROFLUX’:tn OR ‘IMPUGAN’:tn OR ‘JUFURIX’:tn OR ‘LASILACTON’:tn  OR ‘LASILACTONE’:tn OR ‘LASILETTEN’:tn OR ‘LASILIX’:tn OR ‘LASITONE’:tn OR ‘LASIX’:tn OR  ‘LOGIRENE’:tn OR ‘OXALIPLATIN MEDICUS’:tn OR ‘RIOMID’:tn OR ‘SALIDUR’:tn OR ‘SALUREX’:tn OR  ‘SEGURIL’:tn OR ‘SPIRO COMP.’:tn OR ‘SPIRO -D’:tn OR ‘SPIROFUR’:tn OR ‘SPIRONO COMP.’:tn OR  ‘SPIRONOLACTON DURA PLUS’:tn OR ‘VESIX’:tn OR ‘ALDALIX’:tn OR ‘APO FUROSEMIDE’:tn OR ‘BIO - FUROSEMIDE’:tn OR ‘CO -AMILOFRUSE’:tn OR ‘DESAL’:tn OR ‘DIURAL’:tn OR ‘DIURAPID’:tn OR  ‘DIUREMIDA’:tn OR ‘DIUREX’:tn OR ‘DIURISA’:tn OR ‘EDEMID’:tn OR ‘EUTENSIN’:tn OR ‘FRUMIL’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 122/368   ‘FRUSAMIL’:tn OR ‘FRUSEHEXAL’:tn OR ‘FRUSENE’:tn OR ‘FRUSID’:tn OR ‘FURANTHRIL’:tn OR  ‘FURESIS’:tn OR ‘FURIDE’:tn OR ‘FURIX’:tn OR ‘FURO’:tn OR ‘FURODRIX’:tn OR ‘FURON’:tn OR  ‘FURORESE’:tn OR ‘FUROSAL’:tn OR ‘FUROSEMID’:tn OR ‘FUROSEMIDA’:tn OR ‘FUROSEMIDE’:tn OR  ‘FUROSEMIDUM’:tn OR ‘FUROSEMIX’:tn OR ‘FUROSPIR’:tn OR ‘FURSOL’:tn OR ‘FUSID’:tn OR  ‘IMPUGAN’:tn OR ‘LASILACTON’:tn OR ‘LASILACTONA’:tn OR ‘LASILACTONE’:tn OR ‘LASILETTEN’:tn OR  ‘LASILIX’:tn OR ‘LASITONE’:tn OR ‘LASIX’:tn OR ‘LOGIRENE’:tn OR ‘LOWPSTON’:tn OR ‘MAOREAD’:tn  OR ‘NAQUA’:tn OR ‘NEOSEMID’:tn OR ‘NOVO -SEMIDE’:tn OR ‘NURIBAN’:tn OR ‘OEDEMEX’:tn OR ‘PMS - FUROSEMIDE’:tn OR ‘PURESIS’:tn OR ‘RASITOL’:tn OR ‘FUROSEMIDE’:tn OR ‘SEGURIL’:tn OR  ‘UREMIDE’:tn OR ‘UREX FORTE’:tn OR ‘UREX -M’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   76. Prednisolone   ('PREDNISOLONE' /exp OR 'PREDNISOLONE' OR '1,2DEHYDROHYDROCORTISONE' OR  'DELTAHYDROCORTISONE' /exp OR 'DELTAHYDROCORTISONE' OR '8S,9S,10S,11S,13S,14S,17R) - 11,17 -DIHYDROXY -17-(2-HYDROXYACETYL) -10,13 -DIMETHYL -7,8,9,11,12,14,15,16 -OCTAHYDRO -6H- CYCLOPENTA[A]PHENANTHREN -3-ONE' OR 'METACORTANDRALONE' /exp OR 'METACORTANDRALONE'  OR 'PREDNISOLON' /exp OR 'PREDNISOLON' OR 'PREDNISOLONA' /exp OR 'PREDNISOLONA' OR  'PREDNIZOLON' OR 'PREDNIZOLONAS' OR 'PREDNISOLONUM' OR 'ADELCORT' :tn OR 'ADELONE' :tn OR  'CONJUNCTILONE -S':tn OR 'DELIPROCT' :tn OR 'DELTACORTENESOL' :tn OR 'DELTALONE' :tn OR  'DELTASTAB' :tn OR 'DERINOX' :tn OR 'DERMOSOLON' :tn OR 'DERMSOLON' :tn OR 'DI -ADRESON -F  AQUOSUM' :tn OR 'DONTISOLON D' :tn OR 'ENCORTOLON' :tn OR 'EPICUTANTEST -TROLAB D2505' :tn  OR 'ESTILSONA' :tn OR 'FODIER' :tn OR 'FRISOLONA FORTE' :tn OR 'HEFASOLON' :tn OR  'HYDROCORTANCYL' :tn OR 'IMACORT' :tn OR 'IMAZOL COMP.' :tn OR 'ISOPTO CETAPRED' :tn OR  'KLISMACORT' :tn OR 'KÜHLPREDNON' :tn OR 'LEIODERM P' :tn OR 'LEXXEMA CREMA' :tn OR 'LINOLA H  FETT N' :tn OR 'LINOLA H N' :tn OR 'LYGAL' :tn OR 'LYO -DROL' :tn OR 'M -PREDNI' :tn OR  'MECORTOLON' :tn OR 'MEDOPRED' :tn OR 'MEOCIL' :tn OR 'MEPRELON' :tn OR 'METASOL' :tn OR  'METHYLPREDNISOLUT' :tn OR 'METILPREDNISOLONA' :tn OR 'METILPREDNISOLONE' :tn OR  'METILPREDNIZOLON' :tn OR 'METYLPREDNIZOLÓN' :tn OR 'METYPRED FORTE' :tn OR 'METYSOLON' :tn  OR 'MINIMS PREDNISOLONDINATRIUMFOSFAAT' :tn OR 'NEO -DAVISOLONA' :tn OR 'OKRIDO' :tn OR  'OXYTETRACYCLIN -PREDNISOLON JENAPHARM' :tn OR 'PEVANTI' :tn OR 'POLY -PRED' :tn OR 'PRAZEPAM  EG':tn OR 'PRECORTALON AQUOSUM' :tn OR 'PREDENEMA' :tn OR 'PREDMYCIN P LIQUIFILM' :tn OR  'PREDNI -POS':tn OR 'PREDNI -URSAPHARM' :tn OR 'PREDNIFLUID' :tn OR 'PREDNIGALEN' :tn OR  'PREDNIHEXAL' :tn OR 'PREDNIOCIL' :tn OR 'PREDNISOLONNATRIUMSUCCINAAT' :tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 123/368   'PREDNISOLUT' :tn OR 'PREDNISON DAK' :tn OR 'PREDNISONE' :tn OR 'RHEOSOLON' :tn OR 'RINDELT' :tn  OR 'S O L P R E N E' :tn OR 'SINTREDIUS' :tn OR 'SIRODROL' :tn OR 'SOFRASOLONE' :tn OR 'SOLU - DACORTINA' :tn OR 'SOLU -MODERÍN' :tn OR 'TROLAB E2505' :tn OR 'A -METHAPRED' :tn OR  'ADVANTAN' :tn OR 'ADVENTAN' :tn OR 'AK CIDE' :tn OR 'APREDNISLON' :tn OR 'BLEPHAMIDE' :tn OR  'COROTROPE' :tn OR 'DECORTIN H' :tn OR 'DELTACORTRIL' :tn OR 'DEPO MEDROL' :tn OR 'DEPO - MEDRATE' :tn OR 'DEPO -MEDRONE' :tn OR 'DERMOL' :tn OR 'DETURGYLONE' :tn OR 'ECONOPRED' :tn OR  'FENICORT' :tn OR 'FISOPRED' :tn OR 'HEXACORTON' :tn OR 'INFLAMASE' :tn OR 'KOHAKUSANIN' :tn OR  'LAMESON' :tn OR 'LEMOD' :tn OR 'LENISOLONE' :tn OR 'LODOTRA' :tn OR 'MEDIXON' :tn OR  'MEDRATE' :tn OR 'MEDROL' :tn OR 'MEDRONE' :tn OR 'METCOR 16' :tn OR 'METHYLON' :tn OR  'METHYLPRED' :tn OR 'METHYLPREDNISOLON' :tn OR 'METHYLPREDNISOLONE' :tn OR  'METICORTELONE' :tn OR 'METILBETASONE' :tn OR 'METIPRED' :tn OR 'METISOL' :tn OR 'METYPRED' :tn  OR 'MILLIPRED' :tn OR 'MINIMS PREDNISOLONE' :tn OR 'OMNIPRED' :tn OR 'ORAPRED' :tn OR  'PANAFCORTELONE' :tn OR 'PEDIAPRED' :tn OR 'PRED FORT' :tn OR 'PRED FORTE' :tn OR 'PRED MILD' :tn  OR 'PRED -G':tn OR 'PREDFOAM' :tn OR 'PREDMIX' :tn OR 'PREDNESOL' :tn OR 'PREDNI' :tn OR 'PREDNI - OPHTAL' :tn OR 'PREDNICORT' :tn OR 'PREDNISOLON' :tn OR 'PREDNISOLONE' :tn OR 'PREDNISONA' :tn  OR 'PREDNOL' :tn OR 'PREDOHAN' :tn OR 'PREDONEMA' :tn OR 'PREDONINE' :tn OR 'PREDSIM' :tn OR  'PREDSOL' :tn OR 'PREDSOLONE' :tn OR 'PRELONE' :tn OR 'PREMANDOL' :tn OR 'PRENOL' :tn OR  'PREZOLON' :tn OR 'PRIDOL' :tn OR 'REDIPRED' :tn OR 'SCHERIPROCT' :tn OR 'SOL -MELCORT' :tn OR  'SOLOMET' :tn OR 'SOLONDO' :tn OR 'SOLONE PREDNISOLONE' :tn OR 'SOLU -DACORTIN' :tn OR 'SOLU - DECORTIN H' :tn OR 'SOLU -MEDRONE' :tn OR 'SOLU -MODERIN' :tn OR 'SOLUCORT' :tn OR  'SOLUMEDROL' :tn OR 'SOLUPRED' :tn OR 'SPIRICORT' :tn OR 'ULTRACORTEN -H':tn OR  'ULTRACORTENOL' :tn OR 'URBASON':tn) AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   77. Irbesartan   ‘IRBESARTAN’ OR ‘IRBESARTANA’ OR ‘IRBESARTANU’ OR ‘IRBESARTANU’ OR ‘IRBESARTANUM’ OR  ‘IRBESARTAN’ OR ‘IRB ESARTĀNA’ OR ‘IRBESARTANAS’ OR ‘IRBEZARTÁN’ OR ‘IRBÉSARTAN’ OR  ‘IRBESARTAANIA’ OR ‘IRBESARTAANI’ OR ‘IRBESARTÁN’ OR ‘IRBESARTAN’ OR ‘I RBESARTANU’ OR  ‘ABESART’:tn OR ‘AGEPIN’:tn OR ‘ALVEIN’:tn OR ‘APROVEL’:tn OR ‘ARABLOCKTANS’:tn OR  ‘ARDINEL’:tn OR ‘ARTIBESAN’:tn OR ‘ASSIPRESS’:tn OR ‘ATOKKEN’:tn OR ‘BERSIN’:tn OR  ‘BESARTAN’:tn OR ‘BLOKETANGIL’:tn OR ‘CONVERIUM’:tn OR ‘CRISARTERS’:tn OR ‘DAZIROK’:tn OR  ‘EBIRINTAZIDE’:tn OR ‘EBRIT’:tn OR ‘ELSEVAR’:tn OR ‘IFIRMASTA’:tn OR ‘IRABEL’:tn OR ‘IRABEN’:tn  OR ‘IRBEBLUE’:tn OR ‘IRBEC’:tn OR ‘IRBECELL’:tn OR ‘IRBECOR’:tn OR ‘IRBEGAMMA’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 124/368   ‘IRBEGEN’:tn OR ‘IRBEPRESS’:tn OR ‘IRBERATIO’:tn OR ‘IRBESAN’:tn OR ‘IRBETENS’:tn OR  ‘IRBOTENS’:tn OR ‘IRPRESTAN’:tn OR ‘IRTUCALAN’:tn OR ‘IRVEN’:tn OR ‘ISAME’:tn OR ‘JUNELIC’:tn  OR ‘KARVEA’:tn OR ‘KARVOFIL’:tn OR ‘LARTOKAZ’:tn OR ‘LICARBETIDA’:tn OR ‘LICOLIN’:tn OR  ‘LUCIDEL’:tn OR ‘MEFAM’:tn OR ‘PRIBERCOR’:tn OR ‘QUARLINTAN’:tn OR ‘RABESAT’:tn OR  ‘RETENSIR’:tn OR ‘RYCARDON’:tn OR ‘SABERVEL’:tn OR ‘SARTIL’:tn OR ‘SEBESYN’:tn OR  ‘SYNTOSARTIN’:tn OR ‘YBERSIGAX’:tn OR ‘ZARTEROLAN’:tn OR ‘ABISART’:tn OR ‘APROVEL’:tn OR  ‘AVAPRO’:tn OR ‘IRBESARTAN’ OR ‘IRBETAN’ OR ‘IRBEWIN’ OR ‘IRPRESTAN’ OR ‘KARVEA’ AND  ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti  OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   78. Ambroxol   ‘AMBROXOL’ OR ‘AMBROXOLUM’ OR ‘ABROLEN’ :tn OR ‘AFLEGAN’ :tn OR ‘AFRODOR’ :tn OR ‘AMBEX’ :tn  OR ‘AMBRIN’ :tn OR ‘AMBRO’ :tn OR ‘AMBROBENE’ :tn OR ‘AMBROBETA’ :tn OR ‘AMBRODOXY’ :tn OR  ‘AMBROHEXAL’ :tn OR ‘AMBROKSOLIJEV KLORID’ :tn OR ‘AMBROKSOLS’ :tn OR ‘AMBROLAN’ :tn OR  ‘AMBROMUCIL P’ :tn OR ‘AMBROSAN’ :tn OR ‘AMBROSOLVAN’ :tn OR ‘AMBROSPRAY’ :tn OR  ‘AMBROTAXER’ :tn OR ‘AMBROTUS’ :tn OR ‘AMBROX’:tn OR ‘AMBROXINE’:tn OR  ‘AMBROXOLHYDROCHLORID’ :tn OR ‘AMBROXOLI HYDROCHLORIDUM’ :tn OR ‘AMBROXOLO’ :tn OR  ‘AMOBRONC’ :tn OR ‘ANAVIX’:tn OR ‘APRINOL’:tn OR ‘AZIMIL’:tn OR ‘BENFLUX’:tn OR ‘BISOLANGIN’:tn  OR ‘BISOLARYN GEGEN HALSSCHMERZEN’:tn OR ‘BROMAX’:tn OR ‘BRONCHO -EUPHYLLIN’:tn OR   ‘BRONCOLIBER’:tn OR ‘BRONCOLYN ’:tn OR ‘BRONCOMNES’:tn OR ‘BRONCOSIL’:tn OR ‘BRONTAL’:tn  OR ‘BRONTEX’:tn OR ‘BRONXOL’:tn OR ‘BROXOL’:tn OR ‘BRUFIX’:tn OR ‘BUNAFON’:tn OR  ‘CLEMBROXOL’:tn OR ‘DEFLEGMIN’:tn OR ‘DOXAM’:tn OR ‘DOXY COMP’:tn OR ‘DOXY PLUS’:tn OR  ‘DRENOXOL’:tn OR ‘ENTUS JUNIOR’:tn OR ‘ENTUS MAX’:tn OR ‘ENVIL KASZEL’:tn OR ‘FLAVAMED’:tn  OR ‘FLUIBRON’:tn OR ‘FLUIDRENOL’:tn OR ‘FORMULAMUCOL’:tn OR ‘GAMMAXOL’:tn OR ‘GOGOLOX’:tn  OR ‘GRENOVIX’:tn OR ‘HALIXOL’:tn OR ‘HUSTENLÖSER -THERAPIE’:tn OR ‘LASOLVAN’:tn OR  ‘LINDOXYL K’:tn OR ‘LINTOS’:tn OR ‘LIZIPADOL’:tn OR ‘LYSOPADOL’:tn OR ‘LYSOPAÏNE MAUX DE  GORGE  MENTHE  SANS SUCRE,  ÉDULCORÉE AU SORBITOL ET À LA SACCHARINE SODIQUE’:tn OR  ‘LYSOPAÏNE MAUX DE GORGE AMBROXOL MENTHE SANS SUCRE, ÉDULCORÉE AU’:tn OR ‘SORBITOL  ET À LA SACCHARINE SODIQUE’:tn OR ‘LYSOPAÏNE MAUX DE GORGE CASSIS SANS SUCRE  ÉDULCORÉE AU SORBITOL ET AU SUCRALOSE’:tn OR ‘LYSOPAÏNE MAUX DE GORGE CITRON SANS  SUCRE, ÉDULCORÉE AU SORBITOL ET AU SUCRALOSE’:tn OR ‘LYSOPAÏNE MAUX DE GORGE MENTHE  SANS SUCRE ÉDULCORÉE AU SUCRALOSE’:tn OR ‘LYSOPAÏNE MAUX DE GORGE MENTHE SANS SUCRE,  ÉDULCORÉE AU SORBITOL ET À LA SACCHARINE SODIQUE’:tn OR ‘MEDOVENT’:tn OR ‘MEDOX’:tn OR  ‘MOTOSOL’:tn OR ‘MUCIBRÓN’:tn OR ‘MUCICLAR’:tn OR ‘MUCOANGIN’:tn OR ‘MUCOARICODIL’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 125/368   ‘MUCOBROXOL’:tn OR ‘MUCODRENOL’:tn OR ‘MUCOFREE’:tn OR ‘MUCOLEN’:tn OR ‘MUCOLIN’:tn OR  ‘MUCOLISIN’:tn OR ‘MUCOSAN’:tn OR ‘MUCOSIN’:tn OR ‘MUCOSOLVAN’:tn OR ‘MUCOSPAS’:tn OR  ‘MUCOTOSSE’:tn OR ‘MUCOVIX’:tn OR ‘MUKAMBRO’:tn OR ‘MUXOL’:tn OR ‘NAMIX’:tn OR ‘NAXIM’:tn  OR ‘NAXPA’:tn OR ‘NEO -BRONCHOL’:tn OR ‘OLBENORM’:tn OR ‘PHYSIOSOLVAN’:tn OR ‘PRO - AMBROSAN’:tn OR ‘REXAMBRO’:tn OR ‘SARIBAL’:tn OR ‘SECRETIL’:tn OR ‘SOLVOLAN’:tn OR ‘SPASMO - MUCOSOLVAN’:tn OR ‘SPECTORUM EXPECTORANTE’:tn OR ‘STEFOLANT’:tn OR ‘STOPEX’:tn OR  ‘STRUBELIN’:tn OR ‘SURBRONC’:tn OR ‘SURFACTAL’:tn OR ‘SURFOLASE’:tn OR ‘TEVORIL’:tn OR  ‘TOSSE MUCOLITICO’:tn OR ‘TUSMED’:tn OR ‘TUSSAL EXPECTORANS’:tn OR ‘TUSSEFAR’:tn OR  ‘TUSSISOL’:tn OR ‘VENTIBRON’:tn OR ‘VENTOLIBER’:tn OR ‘VICKS EXPECTORANT AMBROXOL’:tn OR  ‘VISCOMUCIL’:tn OR ‘WICK SCHLEIMLÖSER’:tn OR ‘ZERINOL GOLA’:tn OR ‘ZINPEL’:tn OR  ‘AMBROBENE’:tn OR ‘AMBRODOXY’:tn OR ‘AMBROHEXAL’:tn OR ‘AMBROKSOL’:tn OR ‘AMBRON’:tn OR  ‘AMBROSAN’:tn OR ‘AMBROSOL’:tn OR ‘AMBROX’:tn OR ‘AMBROXOL’:tn OR ‘ANKISOL’:tn OR  ‘ANTOBRON’:tn OR ‘APRINOL’:tn OR ‘AXOL’:tn OR ‘BRISMUCOL’:tn OR ‘BROAMI’:tn OR ‘BROMAX’:tn  OR ‘BRONCHOWERN’:tn OR ‘BRONDILAT’:tn OR ‘BROXOL’:tn OR ‘CELMAKYL’:tn OR ‘CINCELAKIN’:tn  OR ‘COUGHNOL’:tn OR ‘DAIORIEL’:tn OR ‘DOXY -DURAMUCAL’:tn OR ‘FLAVAMED’:tn OR ‘FLUIBRON’:tn  OR ‘FUZULEBAN’:tn OR ‘GRINKOOL’:tn OR ‘HALIXOL’:tn OR ‘LASOLVAN’:tn OR ‘LINTOS’:tn OR  ‘MAVIXAN’:tn OR ‘MAX’:tn OR ‘MEDOX’:tn OR ‘MUBROXOL’:tn OR ‘MUCOANGIN’:tn OR  ‘MUCOASTOMARI’:tn OR ‘MUCOBRON’:tn OR ‘MUCOBROXOL’:tn OR ‘MUCOBULIN’:tn OR  ‘MUCOCLEAR’:tn OR ‘MUCOKIL’:tn OR ‘MUCOPEC’:tn OR ‘MUCOPECT’:tn OR ‘MUCOSAL’:tn OR  ‘MUCOSAN’:tn OR ‘MUCOSOLATE’:tn OR ‘MUCOSOLVAN’:tn OR ‘MUKORAL’:tn OR ‘MUXOL’:tn OR  ‘NAXIM’:tn OR ‘OXOLVAN’:tn OR ‘PONOPHEN’:tn OR ‘PULSMARIN A’:tn OR ‘RESPIROL’:tn OR  ‘SEKRETOVIT’:tn OR ‘SOLOMUCO’:tn OR ‘SPASMO -MUCOSOLVAN’:tn OR ‘SURBRONC’:tn OR  ‘SURFACTAL’:tn OR ‘SURFOLASE’:tn OR ‘VANBROAN’:tn OR ‘ZENBRON L’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   79. Lamotrigine   ‘LAMOTRIGINE’ OR ‘LAMOTRIGIN’ OR ‘LAMOTRIGÍN’ OR ‘LAMOTRIGÍNU’ OR ‘LAMOTRIGINĂ’ OR  ‘LAMOTRIGINA’ OR ‘LAMOTRYGINA’ OR ‘LAMOTRIGIN’ OR ‘LAMOTRIGĪNS’ OR ‘LAMOTRIG INUM’ OR  ‘LAMOTRIGIINI’ OR ‘LAMOTRIGINA’ OR ‘ LAMOTRIGIN’ OR ‘LAMOTRIGIN’ OR ‘ARVIND’:tn OR  ‘CRISOMET’:tn OR ‘DANOPTIN’:tn OR ‘DEZEPIL’:tn OR ‘EPITRIGINE’:tn OR ‘GEROLAMIC’:tn OR  ‘ISLETON’:tn OR ‘LABILENO’:tn OR ‘LAMAL’:tn OR ‘LAMBIPOL’:tn OR ‘LAMEPTIL’:tn OR ‘LAMIC’:tn OR  ‘LAMICTAL’:tn OR ‘LAMILEPT’:tn OR ‘LAMITRIN’:tn OR ‘LAMO TAD’:tn OR ‘LAMO -Q’:tn OR ‘LAMOLEP’:tn  OR ‘LAMORO’:tn OR ‘LAMOSYNT’:tn OR ‘LAMOT’:tn OR ‘LAMOTREN’:tn OR ‘LAMOTRIBENE’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 126/368   ‘LAMOTRIGAL’:tn OR ‘LAMOTRIGIN’:tn OR ‘LAMOTRIGINE’:tn OR ‘LAMOTRIN’:tn OR ‘LAMOTRI’:tn OR  ‘LAMOTRIX’:tn OR ‘LAMOX’:tn OR ‘LARIG’:tn OR ‘LATRIGIL’:tn OR ‘MEDOTRIGIN’:tn OR ‘PLEXXO’:tn OR  ‘SEIZAL’:tn OR ‘SYMLA’:tn OR ‘XEBARIN’:tn OR ‘LAMOTRIGINE’:tn OR ‘BIPOGINE’:tn OR ‘EPIRAL’:tn  OR ‘EPITEC’:tn OR ‘LAMAL’:tn OR ‘LAMICTAL’:tn OR ‘LAMITOR’:tn OR ‘LAMITRIN’:tn OR ‘LAMO TAD’:tn  OR ‘LAMOGINE’:tn OR ‘LAMOLEP’:tn OR ‘LAMOTAXYL’:tn OR ‘LAMOTRIBENE’:tn OR ‘LAMOTRIGIN’:tn  OR ‘LAMOTRIGINA’:tn OR ‘LAMOTRIGINE’:tn OR ‘LAMOTRIN’:tn OR ‘LAMOTRIX’:tn OR ‘LAMOX’:tn OR  ‘MUNATREP’:tn OR ‘ -LAMOTRIGINE’:tn OR ‘PROTALGINE’:tn OR ‘REEDOS’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   80. Mirtazapine   ‘MIRTAZAPINE’ OR ‘MIRTAZAPIN’ OR ‘MIRTAZAPÍN’ OR ‘MIRTAZAPINĂ’ OR ‘MIRTAZAPINA’ OR  ‘MIRTAZAPINA’ OR ‘MIRTAZAPĪNS’ OR ‘MIRTAZAPINAS’ OR ‘MIRTAZAPINUM’ OR ‘MIRTAZAPINA’ OR  ‘MIRTAZAPÍN’ OR ‘MIR TAZAPINT’ OR ‘MIRT ATSAPIINI’ OR ‘MIRTASAPIIN’ OR  ‘MIRTAZAPINUM’ OR  ‘AFLOYAN’:tn OR ‘ANCHOPRIV’:tn OR ‘ARINTAPIN’:tn OR ‘AZAPIN’:tn OR ‘CALIXTA’:tn OR  ‘CENFEZIONE’:tn OR ‘COMBAR’:tn OR ‘DEPRERAM’:tn OR ‘ESPRITAL’:tn OR ‘ESPRITAL’:tn OR  ‘MERDATEN’:tn OR ‘MIRAP’:tn OR ‘MIRAP DISTAB’:tn OR ‘MIRASOL’:tn OR ‘MIRON SMELT’:tn OR  ‘MIRTA TAD’:tn OR ‘MIRTABENE’:tn OR ‘MIRTACHEM’:tn OR ‘MIRTADEPI’:tn OR ‘MIRTAGAMMA’:tn OR  ‘MIRTAGEN’:tn OR ‘MIRTALICH’:tn OR ‘MIRTAMOR’:tn OR ‘MIRTAPIL’:tn OR ‘MIRTARON’:tn OR  ‘MIRTASTAD’:tn OR ‘MIRTAZAFER’:tn OR ‘MIRTAZAPIN’:tn OR ‘MIRTAZAPIN’:tn OR ‘MIRTAZAPIN’:tn  OR ‘MIRTAZAPINE’:tn OR ‘MIRTAZAPINĂ’:tn OR ‘MIRTAZELON’:tn OR ‘MIRTAZIPINE’:tn OR  ‘MIRTAZON’:tn OR ‘MIRTEL’:tn OR ‘MIRTIN’:tn OR ‘MIRTOR’:tn OR ‘MIRZASNA’:tn OR ‘MIRZATEN’:tn  OR ‘MITABOR DISPER’:tn OR ‘MIZAPIN’:tn OR ‘MIZAPIN SOL’:tn OR ‘MOTOFEN’:tn OR ‘MÍRON’:tn OR  ‘NORSET’:tn OR ‘ODONAZIN’:tn OR ‘PSIDEP’:tn OR ‘REMERGIL’:tn OR ‘REMERON’:tn OR ‘REMIRTA’:tn  OR ‘REXER’:tn OR ‘REXER FLAS’:tn OR ‘SAXIB’:tn OR ‘TRIMAZYMYL’:tn OR ‘YAROCEN’:tn OR  ‘ZISMIRT’:tn OR ‘ZISPIN’:tn OR ‘ZULIN’:tn OR ‘MIRTAZAPINE’:tn OR ‘AVANZA’:tn OR ‘AVANZA  SOLTAB’:tn OR ‘AXIT’:tn OR ‘COMENTER’:tn OR ‘MIRAP’:tn OR ‘MIRO’:tn OR ‘MIRTABENE’:tn OR  ‘MIRTARON’:tn OR ‘MIRTAZAP’:tn OR ‘MIRTAZAPIN’:tn OR ‘MIRTAZAPINA’:tn OR ‘MIRTAZAPINE’:tn OR  ‘MIRTAZELON’:tn OR ‘MIRTAZIPINE’:tn OR ‘MIRTAZON’:tn OR ‘ MIRTAZAPINE’:tn OR ‘NORSET’:tn OR  ‘PMS-MIRTAZAPINE’:tn OR ‘RAZAPINA’:tn OR ‘REFLEX’:tn OR ‘REMERGIL’:tn OR ‘REMERGON’:tn OR  ‘REMERON’:tn OR ‘REMIRTA’:tn OR ‘MIRTAZAPINE’:tn OR ‘VELORIN’:tn OR ‘ZAPEX’:tn OR ‘ZESTAT’:tn  OR ‘ZISPIN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 127/368   'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   81. Ceftriaxone   ‘CEFTRIAXONE’ OR ‘CEFTRIAZONE’ OR ‘CEFTRIAKSON’ OR ‘CEFTRIAXONĂ’ OR ‘CEFTRIAXONA’ OR  ‘CEFTRIAKSON’ OR ‘CEFTRIAKSONAS’ OR ‘CEFTRIAXONUM’ OR ‘CE FTRIAKSON’ OR ‘CEFTRIAKSON’ OR   ‘CEFTRIAXONUM’ OR ‘CEFTRIAXONA’ OR ‘CEFTRIAXON’ OR ‘CEFTRIAXONUM’ OR ‘ALTAXON’:tn OR  ‘ANTIBACIN’:tn OR ‘BETASPORINA’:tn OR ‘BIOTRAKSON’:tn OR ‘BIXON’:tn OR ‘BRESEC’:tn OR  ‘CEFONOVA’:tn OR ‘CEFORT’:tn OR ‘CEFOTRIX’:tn OR ‘CEFRAG’:tn OR ‘CEFTRIAKSON’:tn OR  ‘CEFTRIAXON’:tn OR ‘CEFTRIAXONE’:tn OR ‘CEFTRIAXON’:tn OR ‘CEFTRIX’:tn OR ‘CEFTRIXON’:tn OR  ‘CEFTRON’:tn OR ‘CERIAX’:tn OR ‘CIPLACEF’:tn OR ‘CLAXON’:tn OR ‘DAVIXON’:tn OR ‘DAYTRIX’:tn OR  ‘DIAXONE’:tn OR ‘EFTRY’:tn OR ‘ERAXITRON’:tn OR ‘FARCEF’:tn OR ‘FIDATO’:tn OR ‘FRINEG’:tn OR  ‘GLORIXONE’:tn OR ‘INFEFLOX’:tn OR ‘KEMUDIN’:tn OR ‘KOCEFAN’:tn OR ‘LABILEX’:tn OR  ‘LENDACIN’:tn OR ‘LONGACEPH’:tn OR ‘LOPRATIN’:tn OR ‘MEDAXONE’:tn OR ‘MEDAXONUM’:tn OR  ‘MESPORIN’:tn OR ‘NILSON’:tn OR ‘OFRAMAX’:tn OR ‘OLICEF’:tn OR ‘PANATRIX’:tn OR ‘PANTOXON’:tn  OR ‘POKECEF’:tn OR  ‘RAGEX’:tn OR ‘RIAXON ’:tn OR ‘ROCEFIN’:tn OR ‘ROCEPHIN’:tn OR  ‘ROCEPHINE’:tn OR ‘ROLISPORIN’:tn OR ‘SAMIXON’:tn OR ‘SETRIOX’:tn OR ‘TARTRIAKSON’:tn OR  ‘TRAVILAN’:tn OR ‘TRIACEFAN’:tn OR ‘VERACOL’:tn OR ‘AZARAN’:tn OR ‘CEF 3’:tn OR ‘CEFAXONE’:tn  OR ‘CEFOGRAM’:tn OR ‘CEFSON’:tn OR ‘CEFTREX’:tn OR ‘CEFTRIAX’:tn OR ‘CEFTRIAXON’:tn OR  ‘CEFTRIAXONE’:tn OR ‘CEFXONE’:tn OR ‘CERONEED’:tn OR ‘EROCEF’:tn OR ‘LENDACIN’:tn OR  ‘LEUCON’:tn OR ‘LIASOPHIN’:tn OR ‘LONGACEPH’:tn OR ‘MEGION’:tn OR ‘NOVOSEF’:tn OR  ‘OFRAMAX’:tn OR ‘ROCEFIN’:tn OR ‘ROCEPHALIN’:tn OR ‘ROCEPHIN’:tn OR ‘ROCEPHINE’:tn OR  ‘ROZECLART’:tn OR ‘SEFIROM’:tn OR ‘TOROCEF’:tn OR ‘TRIAXONE’:tn OR ‘TRIXON’:tn OR  ‘TRIXONE’:tn OR ‘TYASON’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 128/368   contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   82. Acetylcysteine   ‘ACETYLCYSTEINE’ OR ‘NACETYLCYSTEINE’ OR ‘LALPHAACETAMIDOBETAMERCAPTOPROPIONIC ACID’  OR ‘ACETILCISTEINA’ OR ‘ACETYLCYSTEIN’ OR ‘ACETYLCYSTEIN’ OR ‘ACETILCISTEIN’ OR  ‘ACETYLCYSTEÍN’ OR ‘NACETYLCYSTEINUM’ OR ‘ACETILCISTEINĂ’ OR ‘ACETILCISTEÍNA’ OR  ‘ACETYLOCYSTEINA’ OR ‘ACETYLCYSTEIN’ OR ‘ACETYLCYSTEÏNE’ OR ‘ACETYLCYSTEINE’ OR  ‘ACETILCISTEĪNS’ OR ‘ACETILCISTEINAS’ OR ‘ACETYLCYSTEINUM’ OR ‘NACETILCISTEINA’ OR  ‘ACETILCISZTEIN’ OR ‘ACETILCISTEINA’ OR ‘ACETILCISZTEIN’ OR ‘AICÉITILCISTÉIN’ OR  ‘ACÉTYLCYSTÉINE’ OR ‘NACÉTYLCYSTÉINE’ OR ‘ASETYYLIKYSTEIINI’ OR ‘ATSETÜÜLTSÜSTEIIN’ OR  ‘ACETILCISTEÍNA’ OR ‘ACETILCISTEINA’ OR ‘ACETYLCYSTEIN’ OR ‘ACETYLCYSTEIN’ OR  ‘ACETYLCYSTEIN’ OR ‘NACETYLCYSTEINUM’ OR ‘A.B. ACETYLCYS’ OR ‘ACC’ OR ‘ACEBLOXUS’ OR  ‘ACECYS ACUTE’ OR ‘ACETABS’ OR ‘ACETANDOS’ OR ‘ACETILCISTEINA’ OR ‘ACETILCISTEÍNA’ OR  ‘ACETILCISZTEIN’ OR ‘ACETYLCYSTEIN’ OR ‘ACETYLCYSTEINE’ OR ‘ACETYLCYSTEÏN’ OR ‘AEROMUC’:tn  OR ‘ALTERSOL’:tn OR ‘AMINOMEL NEPHRO’:tn OR ‘AMINOPLASMAL’:tn OR ‘AMINOPÄD’:tn OR  ‘AMINOSTERIL HEPA’:tn OR ‘AMINOSTERIL N HEPA’:tn OR ‘AMINOVEN INFANT’:tn OR ‘AMINOVENOES  N PAED’:tn OR ‘AMINOVENÖS N PAED’:tn OR ‘AMIPED’:tn OR ‘AQEUUC’:tn OR ‘BISOLBRUIS’:tn OR  ‘BROMUC’:tn OR ‘BRONCHOCIL’:tn OR ‘BRONCHOCUR HUSTENLÖSER’:tn OR ‘BRONCHOSTAD’:tn OR  ‘BRONCOHEXAL’:tn OR ‘BRONKYL’:tn OR ‘BRUISTABLETTEN ACETYLCYSTEÏNE HTP HUISMERK’:tn OR  ‘BRUISTABLETTEN ACETYLCYSTEÏNE SAM’:tn OR ‘BRUNAC’:tn OR ‘DELTAMIN’:tn OR ‘DISSOLVIN’:tn  OR ‘EURONAC’:tn OR ‘EXOMUC’:tn OR ‘EXPECTOSOL’:tn OR ‘FLUIMICIAL ANTIDOT’:tn OR  ‘FLUIMUCIL’:tn OR ‘FLUIMUKAN’:tn OR ‘FLUMIL’:tn OR ‘FLUMUCIL JUNIOR’:tn OR ‘GENAC’:tn OR  ‘GRANON’:tn OR ‘HIDONAC’:tn OR ‘HOEST BRUISTABLETTEN ACETYLCYSTEÏNE ETOS’:tn OR ‘HUMEX  EXPECTORANT SANS SUCRE’:tn OR ‘HUSTEN ACC’:tn OR ‘HUSTENLÖSER’:tn OR ‘IDYL HOEST  BRUISTABLETTEN ACETYLCYSTEÏNE SDG FARMA’:tn OR ‘ILUBE’:tn OR ‘INISTON MUCUS’:tn OR  ‘KOFIMUCIL MUCOLITICO’:tn OR ‘KRUIDVAT HOESTTABLETTEN BRUIS ACETYLCYSTEINE’:tn OR  ‘KRUIDVAT HOESTTABLETTEN BRUIS ACETYLCYSTEINE’:tn OR ‘LILOVON’:tn OR ‘LISTEMUL’:tn OR  ‘LYSOMUCIL’:tn OR ‘LYSOX’:tn OR ‘MUCOALIV’:tn OR ‘MUCOBENE’:tn OR ‘MUCOFIAL’:tn OR  ‘MUCOLYSIN’:tn OR ‘MUCOMYST’:tn OR ‘MUCOMYSTENDO’:tn OR ‘MUCOSOFT’:tn OR ‘MUCOVIM’:tn OR  ‘MUCOVIT’:tn OR ‘MUCOXAN’:tn OR ‘MUCROFRIN’:tn OR ‘NAC’:tn OR ‘NACECIS’:tn OR ‘NACTOP’:tn OR  ‘NEONUTRIN’:tn OR ‘NEPHROSTERIL’:tn OR ‘NEPHROTECT’:tn OR ‘PARVOLEX’:tn OR ‘PINOXIO’:tn OR  ‘PROTEÏNSTERIL HEPA’:tn OR ‘PULMOSAL’:tn OR ‘PÄDAMIN’:tn OR ‘RATIOMUCOL’:tn OR  ‘RHINOFLUIMUCIL’:tn OR ‘RINOFLUIMUCIL’:tn OR ‘RINOFLUMIL’:tn OR ‘MUCOLITICO’:tn OR  ‘SIGAMUCIL’:tn OR ‘SIRAN AKUT’:tn OR ‘SOLMUCOL’:tn OR ‘TAMUC’:tn OR ‘TIROCULAR’:tn OR  ‘TREBONN’:tn OR ‘TUSSICOM’:tn OR ‘VICKS HOEST BRUISTABLETTEN ACETYLCYSTEINE’:tn OR  ‘VLENOLYS’:tn OR ‘ACC’:tn OR ‘ACEMUC’:tn OR ‘ACETADOTE’:tn OR ‘ACETIN’:tn OR  ‘ACETYLCYSTEIN’:tn OR ‘ACETYLCYSTEINE’:tn OR ‘AIRES’:tn OR ‘AMINOFUSIN’:tn OR ‘DYNAMUCIL’:tn  OR ‘ECOMUCYL’:tn OR ‘EXOMUC’:tn OR ‘FLUCIL’:tn OR ‘FLUIMUCIL’:tn OR ‘FLUIMUKAN’:tn OR  ‘FLUMIL’:tn OR ‘FREKATUSS’:tn OR ‘HIDONAC’:tn OR ‘ILUBE’:tn OR ‘INFESOL’:tn OR ‘MENTOPIN’:tn OR  ‘MIT’:tn OR ‘MUCOMEPHA’:tn OR ‘MUCOFILIN’:tn OR ‘MUCOFLUID ACETYLCYSTEINUM’:tn OR  ‘MUCOLATOR’:tn OR ‘MUCOMYST’:tn OR ‘MUCOPLUS’:tn OR ‘MUCOSIL’:tn OR ‘MUCOSTOP’:tn OR  ‘MUCOVIT’:tn OR ‘MUTERAN’:tn OR ‘NACETILCISTEINA’:tn OR ‘NAC’:tn OR ‘PARVOLEX’:tn OR  ‘REOLIN’:tn OR ‘RHINOFLUIMUCIL’:tn OR ‘RINOFLUIMUCIL’:tn OR ‘SIRAN’:tn OR ‘SOLMUCOL’:tn OR  ‘SPATAM’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 129/368   'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   83. Meloxicam   ‘MELOXICAM’ OR ‘ MELOKSIKAMA’ OR ‘MELOXIKAM’ OR ‘MELOKSYKAM’ OR ‘MELOKSIKĀMA’ OR  ‘MELOKSIKAMO’ OR ‘MELOKSIKAMAS’ OR ‘MELOXICAM’ OR ‘MELOXIKÁMOT’ OR ‘MELOXIKAM’ OR  ‘MELOKSIKAM’ OR ‘MÉLOXICAM’ OR ‘MELO KSIKAAMI’ OR ‘MELOKSIKAAMI’ OR ‘AGLAN’:tn OR  ‘ANTREND’:tn OR ‘ARELOGER’:tn OR ‘ARTHROX’:tn OR ‘ARTRILOM’:tn OR ‘ASPICAM’:tn OR  ‘AUROXICAM’:tn OR ‘BORBIN’:tn OR ‘BROSIRAL’:tn OR ‘CAMELOX’:tn OR ‘CAMOXIP’:tn OR  ‘CELOMIX’:tn OR ‘DUPLICAM’:tn OR ‘EXAMEL’:tn OR ‘FARMELOX’:tn OR ‘FLUMIDON’:tn OR ‘GIXAL’:tn  OR ‘HEXAPHLOGIN’:tn OR ‘ICONAL’:tn OR ‘INOFLON’:tn OR ‘LEUTROL’:tn OR ‘LORMED’:tn OR  ‘LOXIME’:tn OR ‘LOXITAN’:tn OR ‘MALCOX’:tn OR ‘MEDOXICAM’:tn OR ‘MELCAM’:tn OR ‘MELGESIC’:tn  OR ‘MELIAM’:tn OR ‘MELICE’:tn OR ‘MELOBAX’:tn OR ‘MELOCALM’:tn OR ‘MELOCIPLA’:tn OR  ‘MELOCK’:tn OR ‘MELOCOX’:tn OR ‘MELODYN’:tn OR ‘MELOKSAM’:tn OR ‘MELOPROL’:tn OR  ‘MELOREM’:tn OR ‘MELORILIF’:tn OR ‘MELOTECTHERAPY’:tn OR ‘MELOTEV’:tn OR ‘MELOTOP’:tn OR  ‘MELOVIS’:tn OR ‘MELOX’:tn OR ‘MELOXAN’:tn OR ‘MELOXEP’:tn OR ‘MELOXIC’:tn OR ‘MELOXICAM’:tn  OR ‘MELOXIGEN’:tn OR ‘MELOXILEK’:tn OR ‘MELOXIMED’:tn OR ‘MELOXISTAD’:tn OR ‘MELPOR’:tn OR  ‘MEOMEL’:tn OR ‘MEXOLAN’:tn OR ‘MOBEC’:tn OR ‘MOBIC’:tn OR ‘MOBIGLAN’:tn OR ‘MOILEC’:tn OR  ‘MOVALIS’:tn OR ‘MOVATEC’:tn OR ‘MOVAXIN’:tn OR ‘MOVICOX’:tn OR ‘MOVIX’:tn OR ‘MOXALID’:tn  OR ‘MОВИКС’:tn OR ‘NOFLAMEN’:tn OR ‘NORMELOX’:tn OR ‘OLOXICAM’:tn OR ‘OPOKAN’:tn OR  ‘OPOKAN INJ’:tn OR ‘OPOKANFORTE’:tn OR ‘ORAMELLOX’:tn OR ‘ORTOPEDINA’:tn OR ‘PAROCIN’:tn OR  ‘PARTIAL’:tn OR ‘PHILIPONS’:tn OR ‘RECOXA’:tn OR ‘REUMELOX’:tn OR ‘REUMOTEC’:tn OR  ‘REUMOTHERM’:tn OR ‘STARMELOX’:tn OR ‘SUPERCAD’:tn OR ‘TROSICAM’:tn OR ‘VALZER’:tn OR  ‘XELOCAM’:tn OR ‘ZAMETRIXAL’:tn OR ‘ZERELIN’:tn OR ‘AFLAMID’:tn OR ‘APOMELOXICAM’:tn OR  ‘ARSITEC’:tn OR ‘BIOFLAC’:tn OR ‘CO MELOXICAM’:tn OR ‘COXFLAM’:tn OR ‘DOLOCAM’:tn OR  ‘EXEL’:tn OR ‘FLEXIDOL’:tn OR ‘INICOX’:tn OR ‘LOXIFLAM’:tn OR ‘MEDOXICAM’:tn OR ‘MELCAM’:tn OR  ‘MELICAN’:tn OR ‘MELOCOX’:tn OR ‘MELOX’:tn OR ‘MELOXIBELL’:tn OR ‘MELOXICAM’:tn OR  ‘MELOXIN’:tn OR ‘MOBEC’:tn OR ‘MOBIC’:tn OR ‘MOBICAM’:tn OR ‘MOBICOX’:tn OR ‘MOVACOX’:tn OR  ‘MOVALIS’:tn OR ‘MOVATEC’:tn OR ‘MOVICOX’:tn OR ‘MOXICAM’:tn OR ‘NEWSICAM’:tn OR  ‘PMSMELOXICAM’:tn OR ‘RATIOMELOXICAM’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 130/368   OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   84. Ropinirole   ‘ROPINIROLE’ OR ‘ROPINIROL’ OR ‘ROPINIROLUM’ OR ‘ROPINIROLIA’ OR ‘ADARTREL’:tn OR ‘AIMPART  XL’:tn OR ‘ALZOROL’:tn OR ‘APARXON’:tn OR ‘APOROPIN’:tn OR ‘AROPILO’:tn OR ‘AZTAROL’:tn OR  ‘CEUROLEX’:tn OR ‘EMINENS’:tn OR ‘EPPINIX’:tn OR ‘EVECET’:tn OR ‘KAMELOSO’:tn OR ‘LEPINOLE’:tn  OR ‘LIRONA’:tn OR ‘LONEROPENIN’:tn OR ‘NERVAMAT’:tn OR ‘NIRONOVO’:tn OR ‘NYPERO’:tn OR  ‘PARNIROL’:tn OR ‘PAROPEN’:tn OR ‘PARSONIL’:tn OR ‘POLPIX’:tn OR ‘RALNEA’:tn OR ‘RAPONER’:tn  OR ‘REPINEX’:tn OR ‘REPIROL’:tn OR ‘REQUIP’:tn OR ‘ROLPRYNA’:tn OR ‘RONIPAN’:tn OR ‘ROPACT’:tn  OR ‘ROPINAL’:tn OR ‘ROPINICT’:tn OR ‘ROPINIDUB’:tn OR ‘ROPINIPHAR’:tn OR ‘ROPINIR’:tn OR  ‘ROPINIROL’:tn OR ‘ROPINIROLQ’:tn OR ‘ROPINIROLE’:tn OR ‘ROPINIROLO’:tn OR ‘ROPINOROLE’:tn  OR ‘ROPINOSTAD’:tn OR ‘ROPINOXON’:tn OR ‘ROPINROL’:tn OR ‘ROPINROLE’:tn OR ‘ROPINSTAD’:tn  OR ‘ROPINSTAD’:tn OR ‘ROPIQUAL’:tn OR ‘ROPIRADE’:tn OR ‘ROPISON’:tn OR ‘ROPODRIN’:tn OR  ‘ROPRIXA’:tn OR ‘ROTEQ’:tn OR ‘SINDRANOL’:tn OR ‘SKONNEROP’:tn OR ‘SPIROCO’:tn OR  ‘TIFIROL’:tn OR ‘TROPENAR’:tn OR ‘VALZOROL’:tn OR ‘НЕРВАМАТ’:tn OR ‘ADARTREL’:tn OR  ‘REPREVE’:tn OR ‘REQUIP’:tn OR ‘ROPINAL’:tn OR ‘ROPINIROL’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   85. Memantine   ‘MEMANTINE’ OR ‘MEMANTYNA’ OR ‘MEMANTINUM’ OR ‘MEMANTIN’ OR ‘MÉMANTINE’ OR ‘MEMANTINA’  OR ‘ALMERZAC’:tn OR ‘ALUZIME’:tn OR ‘AXURA’:tn OR ‘BALENIE NA ZAČATIE LIEČBY: ZENMEM’:tn OR  ‘BIOMENTIN’:tn OR ‘COGNOMEM’:tn OR ‘DELOZ’:tn OR ‘EBIXA’:tn OR ‘EZEMANTIS’:tn OR  ‘GNOTRIN’:tn OR ‘MANTINEX’:tn OR ‘MANTOMED’:tn OR ‘MARBODIN’:tn OR ‘MARYZOLA’:tn OR  ‘MELUTRIN’:tn OR ‘MEMABIX’:tn OR ‘MEMAMED’:tn OR ‘MEMANDO’:tn OR ‘MEMANTIGAMMA’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 131/368   ‘MEMANTIN’:tn OR ‘MEMANTINAS TORRENT’:tn OR ‘MEMANTINE’:tn OR ‘MEMANTINHYDROCHLORID  AL’:tn OR ‘MEMANTINĂ CHANELLE MEDICAL’:tn OR ‘MEMANTLN’:tn OR ‘MEMANTYNY ABDI’:tn OR  ‘MEMAXA’:tn OR ‘MEMDUB’:tn OR ‘MEMIP’:tn OR ‘MEMIXA’:tn OR ‘MEMORB’:tn OR ‘MEMUTZ’:tn OR  ‘MENTIXA’:tn OR ‘MERANDEX’:tn OR ‘MIRVEDOL’:tn OR ‘MORYSA’:tn OR ‘NEMDATINE’:tn OR  ‘POLMATINE’:tn OR ‘PROTALÓN’:tn OR ‘TORMORO’:tn OR ‘VALIOS’:tn OR ‘VILIMEN’:tn OR  ‘XAPIMANT’:tn OR ‘YMANA’:tn OR ‘ZAHAJOVACÍ BALENÍ: ZENMEM’:tn OR ‘ZALATINE’:tn OR  ‘ZEMERTINEX’:tn OR ‘ZENMEM’:tn OR ‘ZOLMEMIN’:tn OR ‘ΜEMANTINE’:tn OR ‘ABIXA’:tn OR  ‘AKATINOL’:tn OR ‘ALOIS’:tn OR ‘AXURA’:tn OR ‘DEMAX’:tn OR ‘EBIX’:tn OR ‘EBIXA’:tn OR  ‘EUTEBROL’:tn OR ‘MEMARY’:tn OR ‘NAMENDA’:tn OR ‘NEUMANTINE’:tn OR ‘ZIDER’:tn AND ('adverse  drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR  'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   86. Loratidine   ‘LORATADINE’ OR ‘LORATADIN’ OR ‘LORATADÍN’ OR ‘LORATADIN Ǎ’ OR ‘LORATADINA ’ OR  ‘LORATADYNA ’ OR ‘LORATADINUM ’ OR ‘LORATAD ĪN’ OR ‘LORATADINAS ’ OR ‘LORATADINUM ’ OR  ‘LORATADINA ’ OR ‘LÓRATAD ÍN’ OR ‘LORATADIINI’ OR ‘LORATADIINIA’ OR ‘LORATADIIN’ OR  ‘LORATADINA’ OR ‘LORATADINUM’ OR ‘ALERIC LORA’ :tn OR ‘ALLERFRE’:tn OR ‘ALLERGOSTAD’:tn OR  ‘ALLERNON’:tn OR ‘ASDA HAYFEVER & ALLERGY’:tn OR ‘BELODIN’:tn OR ‘BILIRANIN’:tn OR ‘CLAREEZE  ALLERGY’:tn OR ‘CLARIDON’:tn OR ‘CLARIDON QD’:tn OR ‘CLARINASE’:tn OR ‘CLARITINE’:tn OR  ‘CLARITINEKOMBO’:tn OR ‘CLARITYN’:tn OR ‘CLARITYNE’:tn OR ‘CLARITYNED’:tn OR ‘CONTRAL’:tn OR  ‘CRIZIN’:tn OR ‘DOLIALLERGIE LORATADINE’:tn OR ‘EROLIN’:tn OR ‘FLONIDAN’:tn OR ‘FLORGAN’:tn  OR ‘FRISTAMIN’:tn OR ‘GAPHARM NONDROWSY ALLERGY AND HAYFEVER RELIEF’:tn OR ‘HAYFEVER &  ALLERGY’:tn OR ‘HAYTEK ALLERGY’:tn OR ‘HEALTH ESSENTIALS ONE A DAY ALLERGY RELIEF’:tn OR  ‘HISTACLAR’:tn OR ‘HISTADIN’:tn OR ‘HOOIKOORTSTABLETTEN LORATADINE’:tn OR ‘IDYL  LORATADINE SDG FARMA’:tn OR ‘KRUIDVAT HOOIKOORTSTABLETTEN LORATADINE’:tn OR  ‘LATOREN’:tn OR ‘LEIDAPHARM HOOIKOORTSTABLETTEN LORATADINE’:tn OR ‘LOMILAN’:tn OR  ‘LORA’:tn OR ‘LORACIP’:tn OR ‘LORADERM’:tn OR ‘LORADIS’:tn OR ‘LORANO’:tn OR ‘LORAPHARM’:tn  OR ‘LORASTAD’:tn OR ‘LORASTAMIN’:tn OR ‘LORAT’:tn OR ‘LORATADIN’:tn OR ‘LORATADURA’:tn OR  ‘LORATAN’:tn OR ‘LORATIN’:tn OR ‘LORITIN’:tn OR ‘LORYTEC’:tn OR ‘LÓRITÍN’:tn OR ‘MILDIN’:tn OR  ‘REMIDINE’:tn OR ‘RINOLAN’:tn OR ‘ROLETRA’:tn OR ‘ROTADIN’:tn OR ‘RUPTON’:tn OR  ‘SYMPHORAL’:tn OR ‘ LORATADINE’:tn OR ‘TICEVIS’:tn OR ‘TOPPOLL’:tn OR ‘TREKPLEISTER  HOOIKOORTSTABLETTEN LORATADINE’:tn OR ‘TUULIX’:tn OR ‘UTEL’:tn OR ‘ALAVERT’:tn OR  ‘ALERTRIN’:tn OR ‘ALLERCLEAR’:tn OR ‘ALLEREZE’:tn OR ‘ALLERGY RELIEF D 12’:tn OR ‘ALLERGYX’:tn  OR ‘APOLORATADINE’:tn OR ‘CHILDRENS CLARITIN’:tn OR ‘CLARATYNE’:tn OR ‘CLARIDINE’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 132/368   ‘CLARIDON’:tn OR ‘CLARINASE’:tn OR ‘CLARINET’:tn OR ‘CLARITIN’:tn OR ‘CLARITINE’:tn OR  ‘CLARITYN’:tn OR ‘CLARITYNE’:tn OR ‘CLARITYNED’:tn OR ‘DIMEGAN’:tn OR ‘INCLARIN’:tn OR  ‘KLARIDOL’:tn OR ‘LERTAMINE’:tn OR ‘LISINO’:tn OR ‘LOMILAN’:tn OR ‘LORA’:tn OR ‘LORADAMED’:tn  OR ‘LORADINE’:tn OR ‘LORADO POLLEN’:tn OR ‘LORANO’:tn OR ‘LORANOX’:tn OR ‘LORASTINE’:tn OR  ‘LORASTYNE’:tn OR ‘LORATAB’:tn OR ‘LORATADIN’:tn OR ‘LORATADINA’:tn OR ‘LORATADINE’:tn OR  ‘LORATAMED’:tn OR ‘LORATAN’:tn OR ‘LORATIN’:tn OR ‘LORATINE’:tn OR ‘LOREMIX’:tn OR  ‘LORTADINE’:tn OR ‘NARINE’:tn OR ‘PRESSING’:tn OR ‘REMIDINE’:tn OR ‘RUPTON’:tn OR  ‘SENSIBIT’:tn OR ‘SENSIBIT D’:tn OR ‘WAL ITIN D’:tn OR ‘WALITIN’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   87. Zoledronic Acid   ‘ZOLEDRONIC ACID’ OR ‘ZOLEDRONATE’ OR ‘ZOLEDRONSYRA’ OR ‘ÁCIDO ZOLEDRÓNICO’ OR  ‘ZOLEDRONSYRE’ OR ‘ZOLEDRONINEZUUR’ OR ‘ACIDUM ZOLEDRONICUM’ OR ‘ACIDO ZOLEDRONICO’  OR ‘ZOLEDRONSAV’ OR ‘ZOLEDRONATNA KISELINA’ OR ‘ACIDE ZOLÉDRONIQUE’ OR  ‘TSOLEDRONIHAPPO’ OR ‘ÁCIDO ZOLEDRÓNICO’ OR ‘ACIDO ZOLEDRONICO’ OR ‘ZOLEDRONSÄURE’  OR ‘ZOLEDRONSYRE’ OR ‘ZOLEDRONIC ACID’ OR ‘ACID ZOLEDRONIC’ OR ‘ACIDO ZOLEDRONICO’ OR  ‘ACLASTA’:tn OR ‘APOZOLEDRONIC ACID’:tn OR ‘BONCAN’:tn OR ‘BREDIUS’:tn OR ‘DESINOBON’:tn OR  ‘FAYTON’:tn OR ‘KYSELINA ZOLEDRONOVÁ’:tn OR ‘KYSELINA ZOLEDRÓNOVÁ’:tn OR ‘NORDELOZ’:tn  OR ‘OSATE’:tn OR ‘OSPORIL’:tn OR ‘RIBOMETA’:tn OR ‘STEFAMETA’:tn OR ‘STEOZOL’:tn OR  ‘SYMBLASTA’:tn OR ‘SYMDRONIC’:tn OR ‘TAIRA’:tn OR ‘TSOLEDRON’:tn OR ‘ZALIT’:tn OR  ‘ZENDRACTIN’:tn OR ‘ZERLINDA’:tn OR ‘ZOLACITOR’:tn OR ‘ZOLEBLOCK’:tn OR ‘ZOLECAN’:tn OR  ‘ZOLEDREENOS’:tn OR ‘ZOLEDRO’:tn OR ‘ZOLEDRON’:tn OR ‘ZOLEDRONAT’:tn OR ‘ZOLEDRONIC  ACID’:tn OR ‘ZOLEDRONINEZUUR’:tn OR ‘ZOLEDRONOVA KISELINA’:tn OR ‘ZOLEDRONSAEURE’:tn OR  ‘ZOLEDRONSAURE’:tn OR ‘ZOLEDRONSKA KISLINA F’:tn OR ‘ZOLEDRONSYRE’:tn OR  ‘ZOLEDRONSÄURE’:tn OR ‘ZOLEDRÓNIC ACID’:tn OR ‘ZOLEMED’:tn OR ‘ZOLEMYL’:tn OR ‘ZOLENAT’:tn  OR ‘ZOLENDRONIC ACID’:tn OR ‘ZOLENDRONSÄURE’:tn OR ‘ZOLENIA’:tn OR ‘ZOLESTAD’:tn OR  ‘ZOLIMETAX’:tn OR ‘ZOLMESTAT’:tn OR ‘ZOMETA’:tn OR ‘ZOMIC’:tn OR ‘ZOMIKOS’:tn OR ‘ZONYLIA’:tn  OR ‘ZORTILA’:tn OR ‘ZOXALON’:tn OR ‘ZYOLIX’:tn OR ‘ACIDO ZOLEDRONICO’:tn OR ‘ACLASTA’:tn OR  ‘RECLAST’:tn OR ‘ZOLENAT’:tn OR ‘ZOMEBON’:tn OR ‘ZOMERA’:tn OR ‘ZOMETA’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 133/368   'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   88. Zolpidem   ‘ZOLPIDEM’ OR ‘ZOLPIDEMUM’ OR ‘ADORMA’:tn OR ‘APOZOLPIDEM’:tn OR ‘APOZOLPIN’:tn OR  ‘BIKALM’:tn OR ‘CYMERION’:tn OR ‘DALPARAN’:tn OR ‘EDLUAR’:tn OR ‘HYPNOGEN’:tn OR ‘IVADAL’:tn  OR ‘KALINICTA’:tn OR ‘LUNATA’:tn OR ‘MONDEAL’:tn OR ‘NASEN’:tn OR ‘NOTTEM’:tn OR ‘NOXIZOL’:tn  OR ‘NYTAMEL’:tn OR ‘ONIREX’:tn OR ‘ONIRIA’:tn OR ‘OPSYCON’:tn OR ‘PERLUNA’:tn OR ‘PIDEZOL’:tn  OR ‘POLSEN’:tn OR ‘SANVAL’:tn OR ‘SOMNOGEN’:tn OR ‘SOMNOR’:tn OR ‘SONIREM’:tn OR  ‘STILNOCT’:tn OR ‘STILNOX’:tn OR ‘XENTIC’:tn OR ‘ZADOBRA’:tn OR ‘ZOLDEM’:tn OR ‘ZOLEP’:tn OR  ‘ZOLNOD’:tn OR ‘ZOLPEDUAR’:tn OR ‘ZOLPILICH’:tn OR ‘ZOLPIC’:tn OR ‘ZOLPIDEM’:tn OR  ‘ZOLPIGEN’:tn OR ‘ZOLPINOX’:tn OR ‘ZOLPITOP’:tn OR ‘ZOLPREM’:tn OR ‘ZOLSANA’:tn OR  ‘ZONADIN’:tn OR ‘ZONOCT’:tn OR ‘AMBIEN’:tn OR ‘DORMIZOL’:tn OR ‘EDLUAR’:tn OR ‘HYPNOGEN’:tn  OR ‘INTERMEZZO’:tn OR ‘IVADAL’:tn OR ‘LIORAM’:tn OR ‘MYSLEE’:tn OR ‘NASEN’:tn OR ‘NITREST’:tn  OR ‘NOCTE’:tn OR ‘NOCTIDEN’:tn OR ‘SANVAL’:tn OR ‘SEMINAX’:tn OR ‘STILDEM’:tn OR ‘STILNOCT’:tn  OR ‘STILNOX’:tn OR ‘SUBLINOX’:tn OR ‘ZODORM’:tn OR ‘ZOLDEM’:tn OR ‘ZOLDORM’:tn OR  ‘ZOLPIDEM’:tn OR ‘ZOLPIDEMTARTRAAT’:tn OR ‘ZOLPIMIST’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   89. Nebivolol   ‘NEBIVOLOL’ OR ‘NEBIWOLOL’ OR ‘NEBIVOLOLIO’ OR ‘NEBIVOLOLIS’ OR ‘NEBIVOLOLUM’ OR  ‘NEBIVOLOLO’ OR ‘NÉBIVOLOL’ OR ‘N EBIVOLOLI’ OR ‘NEBIVOLOOLI’ OR ‘ACTIBON’:tn OR ‘BIVOL’:tn     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 134/368   OR ‘BLOKAT’:tn OR ‘BRAVYLOL’:tn OR ‘DANEB’:tn OR ‘DUBLOCK’:tn OR ‘EBIVOL’:tn OR ‘EMZOK’:tn OR  ‘EZOCEM’:tn OR ‘HYPOLOC’:tn OR ‘IVINEB’:tn OR ‘LOBIBET A’:tn OR ‘LOBIBETA’:tn OR ‘LOBIVON’:tn  OR ‘LOLOVI’:tn OR ‘NEBIBETA’:tn OR ‘NEBIBLOCK’:tn OR ‘NEBICARD’:tn OR ‘NEBICOR’:tn OR  ‘NEBICUR’:tn OR ‘NEBIGAMMA’:tn OR ‘NEBIHYPER’:tn OR ‘NEBILAN’:tn OR ‘NEBILENIN’:tn OR  ‘NEBILET’:tn OR ‘NEBILOC’:tn OR ‘NEBILOSTAD’:tn OR ‘NEBILOX’:tn OR ‘NEBIMARIN’:tn OR  ‘NEBIMEL’:tn OR ‘NEBINAD’:tn OR ‘NEBINORM’:tn OR ‘NEBIOS’:tn OR ‘NEBIPHAR’:tn OR ‘NEBIROD’:tn  OR ‘NEBISCON’:tn OR ‘NEBISCOP’:tn OR ‘NEBISPES’:tn OR ‘NEBISTALIN’:tn OR ‘NEBITEN’:tn OR  ‘NEBITENSION’:tn OR ‘NEBI’:tn OR ‘NEBITRIX’:tn OR ‘NEBIVAS’:tn OR ‘NEBIVEP’:tn OR  ‘NEBIVOGEN’:tn OR ‘NEBIVOLEK’:tn OR ‘NEBIVOLOL’:tn OR ‘NEBIVOLOLO’:tn OR ‘NEBIZITA’:tn OR  ‘NEBOL’:tn OR ‘NEBYOL’:tn OR ‘NEDAL’:tn OR ‘NELET’:tn OR ‘NEMIROSTAD’:tn OR ‘NEVICANIL’:tn OR  ‘NEVOLOL’:tn OR ‘NEVOTENS’:tn OR ‘NIBEL’:tn OR ‘NOBISTAR’:tn OR ‘NOBITEN’:tn OR ‘NOLET’:tn OR  ‘NOMEXOR’:tn OR ‘NOZAC’:tn OR ‘PLIVACOR’:tn OR ‘SILOSTAR’:tn OR ‘TEMERIT’:tn OR ‘NEB’:tn OR  ‘TYSKITEN’:tn OR ‘VIBOLOL’:tn OR ‘X -PRESSOL’:tn OR ‘BYSTOLIC’:tn OR ‘LOBIVON’:tn OR ‘NABILA’:tn  OR ‘NEBICARD’:tn OR ‘NEBILET’:tn OR ‘NEBIVOLOL’:tn OR ‘NEVOTENS’:tn OR ‘NEXIVOL’:tn OR  ‘SILOSTAR’:tn OR ‘SYNCROCOR’:tn OR ‘TEMERIT’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   90. Chlorhexidine   ‘CHLORHE XIDINE’ OR ‘CHLORHEXIDINUM’ OR ‘CLORHEXIDINA’ OR ‘ACRIFLEX’:tn OR ‘ALIPUR’:tn OR  ‘ALKCEMA’:tn OR ‘ALKSEBOR’:tn OR ‘ALOSPRAY’:tn OR ‘ANESTEFARIN’:tn OR ‘ANGILEPTOL’:tn OR  ‘ANGINOCOM’:tn OR ‘ANTISEPTIC’:tn OR ‘ASTREXINE’:tn OR ‘AWBC’:tn OR ‘BACIMYCIN’:tn OR  ‘BALSOTABS SANS SUCRE’:tn OR ‘BEPANDEX’:tn OR ‘BEPANTHEN’:tn OR ‘BEPANTHENE PLUS’:tn OR  ‘BEPANTISEPTIC’:tn OR ‘BIORGASEPT’:tn OR ‘BROXO DIN’:tn OR ‘BUCCOSOIN’:tn OR  ‘BUCOMETASANA’:tn OR ‘BUCOSPRAY’:tn OR ‘CARE CHLORHEXIDINE DIGLUCONATE’:tn OR ‘CARE  CHLORHEXIDINE DIGLUCONATE’:tn OR ‘CATHEJELL’:tn OR ‘CEDIUM’:tn OR ‘CENTRIMIDE AND  CHLORHEXIDINE GLUCONATE’:tn OR ‘CEPTON’:tn OR ‘CETAVLEX’:tn OR ‘CETRIMIDA +  CLOROHEXIDINA’:tn OR ‘CETRIMIDE, CHLORHEXIDINE GLUCONATE’:tn OR ‘CHLORAPREP’:tn OR  ‘CHLORAPREP COLORÉ’:tn OR ‘CHLORHEXAMED’:tn OR ‘CHLORHEXIDIN’:tn OR  ‘CHLORHEXIDINE/CHLOROBUTANOL’:tn OR ‘CIDEGOL’:tn OR ‘CLOREXAN’:tn OR ‘CLOREXIDINA E  ALCOOL ETILICO SANITAS’:tn OR ‘COLGATE PERIOGARD’:tn OR ‘COLLUDUO’:tn OR ‘COLLUNOVAR’:tn  OR ‘CORSODYL’:tn OR ‘CRISTALCROM’:tn OR ‘CUVEFILM’:tn OR ‘CX’:tn OR ‘CYTEAL’:tn OR  ‘DENTOSMIN’:tn OR ‘DERATIN’:tn OR ‘DERMOBACTER’:tn OR ‘DERMOL WASH’:tn OR ‘DESCUTAN’:tn  OR ‘DESOMEDINE’:tn OR ‘DETTOL’:tn OR ‘DIADROP’:tn OR ‘DIASEPTYL’:tn OR ‘DOSISEPTINE’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 135/368   ‘DRILL HONEY ROSAT’:tn OR ‘DRILL LEMON MINT’:tn OR ‘DRILL MAUX DE GORGE’:tn OR ‘DRILL SANS  SUCRE SUREAU LITCHI’:tn OR ‘DRILL SUGAR FREE’:tn OR ‘DUAL ACTION ATHLETES FOOT’:tn OR  ‘DYNEXAN PROAKTIV’:tn OR ‘ECZMOL’:tn OR ‘EKUBA’:tn OR ‘ELUDRIL’:tn OR ‘ELUDRILPERIO’:tn OR  ‘ELUDRILPRO’:tn OR ‘EPICUTANTEST -TROLAB D0114’:tn OR ‘EURAXSEPTI’:tn OR ‘EXOSEPTOPLIX’:tn  OR ‘FARINDOL’:tn OR ‘FARINGESIC’:tn OR ‘FARINGOPRONT’:tn OR ‘FIRST AID WASH’:tn OR  ‘FRENAGAR’:tn OR ‘GARGARIL’:tn OR ‘GARYDOL’:tn OR ‘GERMOLENE’:tn OR ‘GLUCONATE DE  CHLORHEXIDINE’:tn OR ‘GOLASEPTINE’:tn OR ‘H.A.C’:tn OR ‘HACDIL -S’:tn OR ‘HANDSCRUB’:tn OR  ‘HEXIDENT’:tn OR ‘HEXOKAIN’:tn OR ‘HEXORALETTEN’:tn OR ‘HIBICET’:tn OR ‘HIBIDIL’:tn OR  ‘HIBISCRUB’:tn OR ‘HIBISOL’:tn OR ‘HIBITANE’:tn OR ‘HYDREX’:tn OR ‘HYDRODERM PLUS’:tn OR  ‘ISODRIL’:tn OR ‘KLORHEXIDIN’:tn OR ‘KLORHEXIDINSPRIT FARGET’:tn OR ‘KLORHEXOL’:tn OR  ‘LEMOCIN’:tn OR ‘LENIL’:tn OR ‘MASTER AID DISINFETTANTE’:tn OR ‘MEDISEPTA’:tn OR ‘MEFREN’:tn  OR ‘MENALCOL REFORZADO’:tn OR ‘MENALMINA’:tn OR ‘MERCRYL’:tn OR ‘MERFEN’:tn OR ‘NASEPTIN  NASAL’:tn OR ‘NEO -CUTIGENOL’:tn OR ‘NEOXENE’:tn OR ‘NORMOSEPT’:tn OR ‘OCTRENE’:tn OR  ‘OLYNHEXO’:tn OR ‘PARODONMED’:tn OR ‘PAROEX’:tn OR ‘PERIOCHIP’:tn OR ‘PHENOL AND  CHLORHEXIDINE DIGLUCONATE’:tn OR ‘PIXIDIN’:tn OR ‘PLAK OUT’:tn OR ‘PLUREXID’:tn OR  ‘PREVORA’:tn OR ‘PREXIDINE’:tn OR ‘RHINADVIL MAUX DE GORGE’:tn OR ‘SAVLON’:tn OR  ‘SEPTEAL’:tn OR ‘SEPTIDOSE’:tn OR ‘SEPTIVON’:tn OR ‘SEPTOFORT’:tn OR ‘SIMP 80’:tn OR  ‘SKINSEPT’:tn OR ‘SOLUDRILL’:tn OR ‘SPITADERM’:tn OR ‘STERETS TISEPT’:tn OR ‘STERETS  UNISEPT’:tn OR ‘STERIPREP’:tn OR ‘SUPERDRUG ANTISEPTIC’:tn OR ‘TCP SOOTHING’:tn OR  ‘THIOVALONE’:tn OR ‘TONCILS’:tn OR ‘TRAVAHEX’:tn OR ‘URO -TAINER’:tn OR ‘VALMOCODIN’:tn OR  ‘VISIODOSE’:tn OR ‘VITA -MERFEN’:tn OR ‘ACRIFLEX’:tn OR ‘ANTISEPTIC’:tn OR ‘BEPANTHEN’:tn OR  ‘BETASEPT’:tn OR ‘CHLORAPREP’:tn OR ‘CHLORHEX’:tn OR ‘CHLORHEXAMED’:tn OR ‘CORSODYL’:tn OR  ‘CRISTALMINA’:tn OR ‘DENTOHEXIN’:tn OR ‘DERATIN’:tn OR ‘DESOMEDINE’:tn OR ‘DIASEPTYL’:tn OR  ‘DYNA -HEX’:tn OR ‘ELGYDIUM’:tn OR ‘ELUDRIL’:tn OR ‘GERMOLENE’:tn OR ‘GLUCODINE’:tn OR  ‘HEXICON’:tn OR ‘HEXIDENT’:tn OR ‘HEXIDINE’:tn OR ‘HEXIZAC’:tn OR ‘HEXORAL’:tn OR ‘HIBICET’:tn  OR ‘HIBICLENS’:tn OR ‘HIBIDIL’:tn OR ‘HIBISCRUB’:tn OR ‘HIBITANE’:tn OR ‘MASKIN’:tn OR  ‘MERFEN’:tn OR ‘MERFENE’:tn OR ‘MERIDOL PERIO’:tn OR ‘NOSTRIL’:tn OR ‘PAROEX’:tn OR  ‘PERICHLOR’:tn OR ‘PERIDEX’:tn OR ‘PERIOCHIP’:tn OR ‘PERIOGARD’:tn OR ‘SAVACOL’:tn OR  ‘SAVLON’:tn OR ‘SEPTAL’:tn OR ‘SEPTIVON’:tn OR ‘STERICLON’:tn OR ‘URO -TAINER’:tn AND ('adverse  drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR  'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 136/368   91. Gemcitabine   ‘GEMCITABINE’ OR ‘GEMCITABIN’ OR ‘GEMCITABINA’ OR ‘GE MCITABÍNU’ OR ‘GEMCITABINĂ’ OR   ‘GEMCYTABINA’ OR ‘GEMCYTABINY’ OR ‘G EMCITABIN’ OR ‘GEMCITABĪNA’ OR ‘GEMCITABINO’ OR  ‘GEMCITABIN UM’ OR ‘GEMCITABINA’ OR ‘GEMSITABIINIA’ OR ‘GEMTSITABIINI’ OR ‘GEMCITABINA’ OR  ‘BW-GEMBIN’ :tn OR ‘CITAGEM’:tn OR ‘CITEGIN’:tn OR ‘DEMOZAR’:tn OR ‘DERCIN’:tn OR  ‘EBEGEMCIT’:tn OR ‘FEM11HTI161D1 E6ESE’:tn OR ‘FEMCOJI’:tn OR ‘GEMALATA’:tn OR ‘GEMBIN’:tn  OR ‘GEMCI’:tn OR ‘GEMCIN’:tn OR ‘GEMCINOVINE’:tn OR ‘GEMCIPEN’:tn OR ‘GEMCIRENA’:tn OR  ‘GEMCISTAD’:tn OR ‘GEMCIT’:tn OR ‘GEMCITABIN’:tn OR ‘GEMCITABIN -GRY’:tn OR ‘GEMCITABINA’:tn  OR ‘GEMCITABINE’:tn OR ‘GEMCITAN’:tn OR ‘GEMEDAC’:tn OR ‘GEMIND’:tn OR ‘GEMKABI’:tn OR  ‘GEMLIQUID’:tn OR ‘GEMNIL’:tn OR ‘GEMRA’:tn OR ‘GEMSOL’:tn OR ‘GEMSTAD’:tn OR ‘GEMSTADA’:tn  OR ‘GEMZAR’:tn OR ‘GENVIR’:tn OR ‘GETMISI’:tn OR ‘GITRABIN’:tn OR ‘MEDIGEM’:tn OR ‘OBENEX’:tn  OR ‘ONCOGEM’:tn OR ‘PRODUCTSHORTNAMETST2886’:tn OR ‘REM  6HH E6E11E’:tn OR ‘RIBOZAR’:tn  OR ‘SANTABIN’:tn OR ‘SIVOTAR’:tn OR ‘SYMTABIN’:tn OR ‘TAMCIBIN’:tn OR ‘BOLIGEM’:tn OR  ‘GEMCIT’:tn OR ‘GEMCITABINE’:tn OR ‘GEMZAR’:tn OR ‘GITRABIN’:tn OR ‘ZEFEI’:tn AND ('adverse  drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR  'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   92. Ibandronic Acid   ‘IBANDRONIC ACID’ OR ‘BONDRONAT’ OR ‘IBANDRONATE’ OR ‘KYSELINA IBANDRÓNOVÁ’ OR ‘ÁCIDO  IBANDRÓNICO’ OR ‘IBANDRONINEZUUR’ OR ‘ACIDUM IBANDRONICUM’ OR ‘ACIDO IBANDRONICO’ OR  ‘IBANDRONSAV’ OR ‘ACIDE IBANDRONIQUE’ OR ‘ÁCIDO IBANDRÓNICO’ OR ‘IBANDRONSÄURE’ OR  ‘ABRION’:tn OR ‘ACID IBANDRONIC’:tn OR ‘ACIDE IBANDRONIQUE’ OR ‘ACIDO IBANDRONICO’ OR  ‘ASCENDRA’:tn OR ‘AXIBAL’:tn OR ‘BAXOGAR’:tn OR ‘BONDRONAT’:tn OR ‘BONE -FREE’:tn OR  ‘BONEFURBIT’:tn OR ‘BONESSA’:tn OR ‘BONICID’:tn OR ‘BONNEDRA’:tn OR ‘BONOSTE’:tn OR  ‘BONVIVA’:tn OR ‘CLASTEC’:tn OR ‘DARNALOS’:tn OR ‘ETANORDEN’:tn OR ‘GEROUSIA’:tn OR  ‘HOLMEVIS’:tn OR ‘IASIBON’:tn OR ‘IBADRON’:tn OR ‘IBAGENIT’:tn OR ‘IBAMYL’:tn OR ‘IBANATE’:tn  OR ‘IBANDONIC ACID’:tn OR ‘IBANDREENOS’:tn OR ‘IBANDRO’:tn OR ‘IBANDRONAT’:tn OR  ‘IBANDRONATE’:tn OR ‘IBANDRONATSYRA LICONSA’:tn OR ‘IBANDRONIAN’:tn OR ‘IBANDRONIC  ACID’:tn OR ‘IBANDRONIC CHEMI’:tn OR ‘IBANDRONIHAPPO SUN’:tn OR ‘IBANDRONIHAPPOA  LICONSA’:tn OR ‘IBANDRONINENZUUR’:tn OR ‘IBANDRONINEZUUR’:tn OR ‘IBANDRONO RŪGŠTIS  LICONSA’:tn OR ‘IBANDRONSAV’:tn OR ‘IBANDRONSKA KISLINA LICONSA’:tn OR ‘IBANDRONSKĀBES  LICONSA’:tn OR ‘IBANDRONSYRA SUN’:tn OR ‘IBANDRONSYRE LICONSA’:tn OR ‘IBANDRONSYRE  SUN’:tn OR ‘IBANDRONSÄURE’:tn OR ‘IBANDRONÁT ‘:tn OR ‘IBAT’:tn OR ‘IBATEC’:tn OR ‘IBONDEM’:tn     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 137/368   OR ‘IBOSAT’:tn OR ‘IBOSTOFAR’:tn OR ‘IKAMETIN’:tn OR ‘INDROFAR’:tn OR ‘INDROSPES’:tn OR  ‘INOSTELID’:tn OR ‘IVADRON’:tn OR ‘KALOSSO’:tn OR ‘KEFORT’:tn OR ‘KWAS IBANDRONOWY  LICONSA’:tn OR ‘KYSELINA IBANDRÓNOVÁ’:tn OR ‘LICOBONDRAT’:tn OR ‘NOBECID’:tn OR  ‘NUCODRAN’:tn OR ‘ONDRACID’:tn OR ‘OSAGRAND’:tn OR ‘OSBONELLE’:tn OR ‘OSSICA’:tn OR  ‘OSTEA’:tn OR ‘OSTEOVIVA’:tn OR ‘OSTISPES’:tn OR ‘OSTONE’:tn OR ‘OZILΕΝ’:tn OR  ‘PHACEBONATE’:tn OR ‘QUODIXOR’:tn OR ‘RATIBAN’:tn OR ‘SEDROPOR’:tn OR ‘SPESOSTOUN’:tn OR  ‘VINODRAN’:tn OR ‘VOLIRAN’:tn OR ‘ZIVETENO’:tn OR ‘BONDRONAT’:tn OR ‘BONIVA’:tn OR  ‘BONVIVA’:tn OR ‘IBANDRONATE’:tn OR ‘IDENA’:tn OR ‘OSTEOBAN’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   93. Clindamycin   ‘CLINDAMYCIN’ OR ‘CLINDAMYCINUM’ OR ‘KLINDAMICIN’ OR ‘CLINDAMICINA’ OR ‘KLINDAMYCYNA’ OR  ‘CLINDAMYCINUM’ OR ‘CLINDAMICINA’ OR ‘CLIN DAMYCINE’ OR ‘CLINDAMICINA’ OR ‘ACNATAC’:tn OR  ‘ACNEX’:tn OR ‘AKNET’:tn OR ‘ARFAREL’:tn OR ‘BASOCIN’:tn OR ‘BOROPHEN’:tn OR ‘CLEOCIN’:tn OR  ‘CLIDACIN’:tn OR ‘CLIMYCEN’:tn OR ‘CLIN -SANORANIA’:tn OR ‘CLINCINA’:tn OR ‘CLINDA -IPP’:tn OR  ‘CLINDA -SAAR’:tn OR ‘CLINDAC’:tn OR ‘CLINDACNE’:tn OR ‘CLINDAFLUID’:tn OR ‘CLINDAGEL’:tn OR  ‘CLINDAHEXAL’:tn OR ‘CLINDAMYCIN’:tn OR ‘CLINDAMYCINE’:tn OR ‘CLINDASOL’:tn OR  ‘CLINDASTAD’:tn OR ‘CLINDOXYL’:tn OR ‘CLINWAS’:tn OR ‘DALACIN’:tn OR ‘DALACIN -T’:tn OR  ‘DALACINE’:tn OR ‘DALACÍN FOSFATO VÍA PARENTERAL’:tn OR ‘DUAC’:tn OR ‘EDASON’:tn OR  ‘ESTERIA’:tn OR ‘FOUCH’:tn OR ‘HEXABACT’:tn OR ‘INDOXYL’:tn OR ‘KLIMICIN’:tn OR ‘KLINDACIN’:tn  OR ‘LANACINE’:tn OR ‘NORMACLIN’:tn OR ‘RESIDERM’:tn OR ‘SOBELIN’:tn OR ‘SOTOMYCIN’:tn OR  ‘TOLIKEN’:tn OR ‘TRECLIN’:tn OR ‘TRECLINAC’:tn OR ‘TRECLINAX’:tn OR ‘TURIMYCIN’:tn OR  ‘UPDERM’:tn OR ‘VAGICLIN’:tn OR ‘VELDOM’:tn OR ‘YENLIP’:tn OR ‘ZALNA’:tn OR ‘ZANEA’:tn OR  ‘ZINDACLIN’:tn OR ‘АКНАТАК 10 ACNATAC 10’:tn OR ‘BENZACLIN’:tn OR ‘CLEOCIN’:tn OR  ‘CLIDAMACIN’:tn OR ‘CLINAGEL’:tn OR ‘CLINDA’:tn OR ‘CLINDAC’:tn OR ‘CLINDACIN’:tn OR  ‘CLINDAGEL’:tn OR ‘CLINDAMAX’:tn OR ‘CLINDAMICINA’:tn OR ‘CLINDAMYCIN’:tn OR  ‘CLINDAMYCINE’:tn OR ‘CLINDASOL’:tn OR ‘CLINDATECH’:tn OR ‘CLINDESSE’:tn OR ‘CLINDETS’:tn OR  ‘CLINDOXYL’:tn OR ‘DALACIN’:tn OR ‘DALACINE’:tn OR ‘DENTOMYCIN’:tn OR ‘DUAC’:tn OR  ‘EVOCLIN’:tn OR ‘HANDARAMIN’:tn OR ‘INDOXYL’:tn OR ‘KLIMICIN’:tn OR ‘LANACINE’:tn OR ‘ - CLINDAMYCIN’:tn OR ‘PROLIC’:tn OR ‘SOBELIN’:tn OR ‘TARO -CLINDAMYCIN’:tn OR ‘TIDACT’:tn OR  ‘VELTIN’:tn OR ‘ZIANA’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 138/368   abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   94. Betamethasone   ‘BETAMETHASONE’ OR ‘BETAMETASON’ OR ‘BETAMETAZON’ OR ‘BETAMETAZONĂ’ OR ‘BET AMETASONA’  OR ‘BETAMETAZON’ OR ‘BETAMETAZONAS’ OR ‘BETAMETHASONUM’ OR ‘BETAMETASONE’ OR  ‘BETAMETASÓN’ OR ‘BETAMETAZON’ OR ‘BÉTAMÉTHASONE’ OR ‘BEETAMETASOON’ OR  ‘BETAMETASONA’ OR ‘BETAMETHASON’ OR ‘BETAMETHASON’ OR ‘BETAMETHASONUM’ OR  ‘ALBAFLO’:tn OR ‘ALDOSIN’:tn OR ‘ALERGICAL’:tn OR ‘ALFAFLOR’:tn OR ‘AUDAVAL’:tn OR  ‘AUDAVATE’:tn OR ‘BEBEN’:tn OR ‘BEDICORT’:tn OR ‘BELODERM’:tn OR ‘BELOGENT’:tn OR  ‘BEMETSON’:tn OR ‘BEMON’:tn OR ‘BENOM’:tn OR ‘BENTELAN’:tn OR ‘BET -FU’:tn OR ‘BETA’:tn OR  ‘BETABIOPTAL’:tn OR ‘BETACAP’:tn OR ‘BETACREAM’:tn OR ‘BETACREME’:tn OR ‘BETAFUSIN’:tn OR  ‘BETAGALEN’:tn OR ‘BETALOTIO’:tn OR ‘BETAMESOL’:tn OR ‘BETAMETASONE’:tn OR  ‘BETAMETAZONA’:tn OR ‘BETAMETHASONE’:tn OR ‘BETAMETHASONVALERAT’:tn OR ‘BETAPRED’:tn OR  ‘BETASALBE’:tn OR ‘BETASID’:tn OR ‘BETATAPE’:tn OR ‘BETAZON’:tn OR ‘BETESIL’:tn OR  ‘BETNELAN’:tn OR ‘BETNESOL’:tn OR ‘BETNEVAL’:tn OR ‘BETNOVAT’:tn OR ‘BETNOVATE’:tn OR  ‘BETTAMOUSSE’:tn OR ‘BIORINIL’:tn OR ‘BREXAGENBETA’:tn OR ‘BRONSAL’:tn OR ‘BRUMETON’:tn OR  ‘BUCCOBET’:tn OR ‘CALCIPOTRIOL’:tn OR ‘CALCIPOTRIOL/BETAMETASONA’:tn OR ‘CALCIPOTRIOLO E  BETAMETASONE’:tn OR ‘CELECREM’:tn OR ‘CELESDEPOT’:tn OR ‘CELESTAMINE’:tn OR ‘CELESTAN - V’:tn OR ‘CELESTENE’:tn OR ‘CELESTENE CHRONODOSE’:tn OR ‘CELESTODERM’:tn OR ‘CELESTONE’:tn  OR ‘CILESTODERME’:tn OR ‘CLO -EKARZIN’:tn OR ‘CORTIFLAM’:tn OR ‘CUATROCREM’:tn OR  ‘DAIVOBET’:tn OR ‘DALBECAL’:tn OR ‘DEFLATOP’:tn OR ‘DELCIBET’:tn OR ‘DELTAVAGIN’:tn OR  ‘DERMABIOLENE’:tn OR ‘DEXA EDO’:tn OR ‘DEXA -OPHTAL’:tn OR ‘DEXA -RHINOSPRAY N SINE’:tn OR  ‘DEXAGALEN’:tn OR ‘DEXAGEL’:tn OR ‘DEXAHEXAL’:tn OR ‘DIPRODERM’:tn OR ‘DIPROFORM’:tn OR  ‘DIPROFORTE’:tn OR ‘DIPROGENTA’:tn OR ‘DIPROLEN’:tn OR ‘DIPROLENE’:tn OR ‘DIPROPHOS’:tn OR  ‘DIPROSIS’:tn OR ‘DIPROSONE’:tn OR ‘DIPROSPAN’:tn OR ‘DIPROSTENE’:tn OR ‘DOTROL’:tn OR  ‘DOVOBET’:tn OR ‘DΟVOBET’:tn OR ‘ECOVAL’:tn OR ‘EGERIAN’:tn OR ‘EKARZIN’:tn OR  ‘EPICUTANTEST -TROLAB D2482’:tn OR ‘EPIONE’:tn OR ‘ETASON’:tn OR ‘EUBETAL ANTIBIOTICO’:tn OR  ‘FIDAGENBETA’:tn OR ‘FLOGODERM’:tn OR ‘FLOGOZYME’:tn OR ‘FLOSTERON’:tn OR ‘FLOTIRAN’:tn OR  ‘FUBECOT’:tn OR ‘FUCIBET’:tn OR ‘FUCICORT’:tn OR ‘FUSIBET’:tn OR  ‘FUSIDINSYRA/BETAMETASON’:tn OR ‘FUSIDINSYRE/BETAMETHASONVALERAT’:tn OR  ‘FUSIDINSÄURE/BETAMETHASON’:tn OR ‘GARAMAT’:tn OR ‘GARASONE’:tn OR ‘GENTAMICINA +  BETAMETASONE’:tn OR ‘GENTAMICINA E BETAMETASONE’:tn OR ‘HELPODERM’:tn OR ‘IBET’:tn OR  ‘KAMELYN’:tn OR ‘KUTERID’:tn OR ‘LINOLACORT BETA’:tn OR ‘LOTRICOMB’:tn OR ‘LOTRIDERM’:tn OR  ‘MEDOBETA’:tn OR ‘MOVITHIOL’:tn OR ‘OSMORAN’:tn OR ‘PROPIOCHRONE’:tn OR ‘PROPIOGENTA’:tn  OR ‘PSORCUTAN’:tn OR ‘PSORCUTAN BETA’:tn OR ‘SANORVIL’:tn OR ‘SENSIBIO’:tn OR ‘SODERM’:tn     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 139/368   OR ‘SOLU CELESTAN’:tn OR ‘SOLUDERME’:tn OR ‘SOLUPEN SINE’:tn OR ‘STAFICORT’:tn OR  ‘STEROZINIL’:tn OR ‘STRANOVAL’:tn OR ‘SULMYCIN MIT CELESTAN -V’:tn OR ‘SURRIPO’:tn OR  ‘BETA’:tn OR ‘TOKEN’:tn OR ‘TRESYL’:tn OR ‘TRIDERM’:tn OR ‘TROLAB E2482’:tn OR  ‘VISTAMETHASONE’:tn OR ‘XAMIOL’:tn OR ‘ALFAFLOR’:tn OR ‘ANTEBATE’:tn OR ‘ANTROQUORIL’:tn OR  ‘BENTELAN’:tn OR ‘BERBESOLONE’:tn OR ‘BETACORT’:tn OR ‘BETACORTEN’:tn OR ‘BETADERM’:tn OR  ‘BETAGEN’:tn OR ‘BETAMETASONE’:tn OR ‘BETAMETHASON’:tn OR ‘BETAMETHASONE’:tn OR  ‘BETANOID’:tn OR ‘BETAPRED’:tn OR ‘BETASONE’:tn OR ‘BETHASONE’:tn OR ‘BETNASOL’:tn OR  ‘BETNESOL’:tn OR ‘BETNEVATE’:tn OR ‘BETNOVAL’:tn OR ‘BETNOVAT’:tn OR ‘BETNOVATE’:tn OR  ‘BETOPIC’:tn OR ‘BUFENCON’:tn OR ‘CELESEMINE’:tn OR ‘CELESTAMIN’:tn OR ‘CELESTAMINE’:tn OR  ‘CELESTENE’:tn OR ‘CELESTENE CHRONODOSE’:tn OR ‘CELESTODERM’:tn OR ‘CELESTON’:tn OR  ‘CELESTONE’:tn OR ‘CLOTRASON’:tn OR ‘COMBIDERM’:tn OR ‘CORTIVAL’:tn OR ‘CRONOLEVEL’:tn OR  ‘CUATRODERM’:tn OR ‘DAIVOBET’:tn OR ‘DERMASONE’:tn OR ‘DERMIZOL’:tn OR ‘DERMOSOL’:tn OR  ‘DEXAN -VG’:tn OR ‘DIPROBETA’:tn OR ‘DIPROCEL’:tn OR ‘DIPROFOS’:tn OR ‘DIPROGENTA’:tn OR  ‘DIPROLEN’:tn OR ‘DIPROLENE’:tn OR ‘DIPROPHOS’:tn OR ‘DIPROSONE’:tn OR ‘DIPROSPAN’:tn OR  ‘DIPROSTENE’:tn OR ‘DOVOBET’:tn OR ‘ELEUPHRAT’:tn OR ‘FLOSTERON’:tn OR ‘FUCICORT’:tn OR  ‘GARASONE’:tn OR ‘GENTRISONE’:tn OR ‘HICORT’:tn OR ‘HISTABLOCK’:tn OR ‘KÓIDE D’:tn OR  ‘LENOVATE’:tn OR ‘LINOLOSAL’:tn OR ‘LOTRIDERM’:tn OR ‘LOTRISONE’:tn OR ‘LURICUL VG’:tn OR  ‘LUXIQ’:tn OR ‘OINTMENT’:tn OR ‘PERSIVATE’:tn OR ‘PREVEX B’:tn OR ‘RATIO -ECTOSONE’:tn OR  ‘RINBETA PF’:tn OR ‘RINDERON’:tn OR ‘RINESTERON’:tn OR ‘SACCORTIN’:tn OR ‘SANBETASON’:tn OR  ‘STERONEMA’:tn OR ‘TRIDERM’:tn OR ‘UNIFLEX’:tn OR ‘VALISONE’:tn OR ‘VISTAMETHASONE’:tn OR  ‘XAMIOL’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   95. Salbutamol   ‘SALBUTAMOL’ OR ‘ALBUTEROL’ OR  ‘SALBUTAMOLIS’ OR ‘SALBUTAMOLUM’ OR ‘SA LBUTAMOLO’ OR  ‘SZALBUTAMOL’ OR  ‘SALBUTAMOLIA’ OR ‘SALBUTAMOL’ OR ‘AEROLIN’:tn OR ‘AIROMIR’:tn OR  ‘AIRSALB’:tn OR ‘ALDOBRONQUIAL’:tn OR ‘ASMASAL’:tn OR ‘ASPULMO’:tn OR ‘ASTHALIN’:tn OR  ‘ASTHMOTRAT’:tn OR ‘ATRODUAL’:tn OR ‘BEROVENT’:tn OR ‘BIWIND’:tn OR ‘BROMETO DE  IPRATRÓPIO + SALBUTAMOL’:tn OR ‘BRONCOVALEAS’:tn OR ‘BUTO -AIR’:tn OR ‘BUTO -ASMA’:tn OR  ‘BUTOSOL’:tn OR ‘BUVENTOL EASYHALER’:tn OR ‘COMBINEB’:tn OR ‘COMBIPRAMOL’:tn OR  ‘COMBIPRASAL’:tn OR ‘COMBIVENT’:tn OR ‘DEMOREN’:tn OR ‘EASYHALER SALBUTAMOL SULPHATE’:tn  OR ‘ECOSAL’:tn OR ‘EPAQ’:tn OR ‘GERIVENT’:tn OR ‘INASAL’:tn OR ‘IPRAMOL’:tn OR ‘IPRASA’:tn OR  ‘IPRATROPIUM/SALBUTAMOL’:tn OR ‘IPRATROPIUMBROMIDE/SALBUTAMOL’:tn OR ‘LYOVENT’:tn OR  ‘MEDOLIN’:tn OR ‘NAOS’:tn OR ‘NEBU -IPRASAL’:tn OR ‘NOVOLIZER SALBUTAMOL’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 140/368   ‘PENTAMOL’:tn OR ‘PLENAER’:tn OR ‘PROPAVENTE’:tn OR ‘PULVINAL’:tn OR ‘RESPIGEN’:tn OR  ‘SABACOMB’:tn OR ‘SABUMALIN’:tn OR ‘SALAMOL’:tn OR ‘SALAPIN’:tn OR ‘SALBUAIR’:tn OR  ‘SALBUHEXAL’:tn OR ‘SALBUL’:tn OR ‘SALBULAIR N’:tn OR ‘SALBULIN MDPI NOVOLIZER’:tn OR  ‘SALBULIND’:tn OR ‘SALBUMOL’:tn OR ‘SALBUSAN’:tn OR ‘SALBUTAMOL’:tn OR ‘SALBUVENT’:tn OR  ‘SALIPRANEB’:tn OR ‘SALUBUTAMOL’:tn OR ‘SANOHEX’:tn OR ‘SAPIMOL’:tn OR ‘SOSARIA’:tn OR  ‘STERI -NEB SALAMOL’:tn OR ‘SULTANOL’:tn OR ‘VENTAMOL’:tn OR ‘VENTILAN’:tn OR ‘VENTILASTIN  NOVOLIZER’:tn OR ‘VENTMAX’:tn OR ‘VENTOALDO’:tn OR ‘VENTOLIN’:tn OR ‘VENTOLINE’:tn OR  ‘VIVORET’:tn OR ‘VOLMAC’:tn OR ‘ACCUNEB’:tn OR ‘AEROLIN’:tn OR ‘AIROMIR’:tn OR ‘ALMEIDA’:tn OR  ‘APSOMOL’:tn OR ‘ASMAR’:tn OR ‘ASMASAL’:tn OR ‘ASMAVENT’:tn OR ‘ASMOL’:tn OR ‘ASTAZIS’:tn OR  ‘ASTHALIN’:tn OR ‘ASTHAVENT’:tn OR ‘ASTHMA -SPRAY’:tn OR ‘ATRODUAL’:tn OR ‘BEROVENT’:tn OR  ‘BREVA’:tn OR ‘BRONCHO’:tn OR ‘BRONCHOSPRAY’:tn OR ‘BUTAMOL’:tn OR ‘BUVENTOL  EASYHALER’:tn OR ‘CLENIL COMPOSITUM’:tn OR ‘COMBIVENT’:tn OR ‘DOSPIR’:tn OR ‘DUOLIN’:tn OR  ‘DUONEB’:tn OR ‘ECOSAL’:tn OR ‘ECOVENT’:tn OR ‘IPRAMOL’:tn OR ‘IPRATROPIUM BROMIDE AND  ALBUTEROL SULFATE’:tn OR ‘NOVO -SALMOL’:tn OR ‘PMS -SALBUTAMOL’:tn OR ‘PROAIR HFA’:tn OR  ‘PROVENTIL’:tn OR ‘RATIO -IPRA SAL UDV’:tn OR ‘RATIO -SALBUTAMOL’:tn OR ‘RESPIROMA’:tn OR  ‘SALAMOL’:tn OR ‘SALBRON’:tn OR ‘SALBUHEXAL’:tn OR ‘SALBUMOL’:tn OR ‘SALBUTAMOL’:tn OR  ‘SALBUTARD’:tn OR ‘SALGIM’:tn OR ‘SALTOS’:tn OR ‘SALVENT’:tn OR ‘SPALMOTIL’:tn OR  ‘SULTANOL’:tn OR ‘VENETLIN’:tn OR ‘VENTEZE’:tn OR ‘VENTIDE’:tn OR ‘VENTILAN’:tn OR  ‘VENTODISK’:tn OR ‘VENTOLIN’:tn OR ‘VENTOLINE’:tn OR ‘VENTOSAL’:tn OR ‘VOLMAX’:tn OR  ‘VOSPIRE’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   96. Naproxen   ‘NAPROXEN’ OR ‘NAPROXENE’ OR ‘NAPROKSEN’ OR ‘NAPROXENUM’ OR ‘NAPROXÉN’ OR ‘NAPROXEN’   OR ‘NAPROXENO’ OR ‘NAPROKSEN’ OR ‘NAPROKSĒNS’ OR ‘NAPROKSENAS’ OR ‘NAPROXENUM’ OR  ‘‘NAIPRÓICSÉIN’ OR ‘NAPROXÈNE’ OR ‘NAPROKSEENI’ OR ‘NAPROKSEEN’ OR ‘NAPROXENO’ OR  ‘ALEVE’:tn OR ‘ALEVETABS’:tn OR ‘ALPOXEN’:tn OR ‘ANAIGESIN’:tn OR ‘ANALGESIN DOLO’:tn OR  ‘ANAPRAN’:tn OR ‘ANAPROX’:tn OR ‘ANTALGIN’:tn OR ‘ANTALNOX’:tn OR ‘NAPRO’:tn OR ‘APRANAX’:tn  OR ‘ARTHROSIN EC’:tn OR ‘ARTHROXEN’:tn OR ‘BONYL’:tn OR ‘DOLORMIN GS’:tn OR  ‘DYSMENALGIT’:tn OR ‘EMOX’:tn OR ‘EMOXEN’:tn OR ‘EOX’:tn OR ‘ESOMEPRAZOLE MAGNESIUM +  NAPROXEN’:tn OR ‘ETRIXENAL’:tn OR ‘FEMINAX ULTRA’:tn OR ‘FLUIMUCIL GOLA’:tn OR ‘GERINAP  E.C.’:tn OR ‘ILGESIN’:tn OR ‘KRUIDVAT NAPROXENNATRIUM’:tn OR ‘LASER’:tn OR ‘LIOTONDOL  ACTION’:tn OR ‘MIRANAX’:tn OR ‘MOBILAT SCHMERZTABLETTEN MIT NAPROXEN’:tn OR ‘MOMEN’:tn  OR ‘MOMENDOL’:tn OR ‘NALDOREX’:tn OR ‘NALGEDOL’:tn OR ‘NALGESIN’:tn OR ‘NAPREBEN’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 141/368   ‘NAPREN -E’:tn OR ‘NAPRIUS’:tn OR ‘NAPROBENE’:tn OR ‘NAPROCET’:tn OR ‘NAPROCUR’:tn OR  ‘NAPROMETIN’:tn OR ‘NAPROMEX’:tn OR ‘NAPROREX’:tn OR ‘NAPROSSENE’:tn OR ‘NAPROSYN’:tn OR  ‘NAPROSYNE’:tn OR ‘NAPROXAVI’:tn OR ‘NAPROXEN’:tn OR ‘NAPROXEN -E’:tn OR  ‘NAPROXENNATRIUM’:tn OR ‘NAPROXENO’:tn OR ‘NAPSYN’:tn OR ‘NAXII’:tn OR ‘NEO EBLIMON’:tn OR  ‘NEOXEN’:tn OR ‘NITENS’:tn OR ‘NYCOPREN’:tn OR ‘OPOKAN ACTIGEL’:tn OR ‘PABI -NAPROXEN’:tn OR  ‘PREXAN’:tn OR ‘PRIAXEN’:tn OR ‘PRONAXEN’:tn OR ‘PROXAGOL’:tn OR ‘PROXAN’:tn OR ‘PROXEN’:tn  OR ‘REUXEN’:tn OR ‘SYNALGO’:tn OR ‘SYNFLEX’:tn OR ‘TREKPLEISTER NAPROXENNATRIUM’:tn OR  ‘UNINAPRO’:tn OR ‘ALEVE’:tn OR ‘ANALGEN’:tn OR ‘ANAPROX’:tn OR ‘ANTALGIN’:tn OR ‘APO  NAPROXEN’:tn OR ‘NAPRO -NA’:tn OR ‘APRANAX’:tn OR ‘APROL FORT’:tn OR ‘APRONAX’:tn OR  ‘BONYL’:tn OR ‘DAFLOXEN’:tn OR ‘EC -NAPROSYN’:tn OR ‘FLANAX’:tn OR ‘LASER’:tn OR ‘MAXIDOL’:tn  OR ‘MENSTRIDOL’:tn OR ‘MIDOL’:tn OR ‘MIRANAX’:tn OR ‘NAFASOL’:tn OR ‘NAIXAN’:tn OR  ‘NALGESIN’:tn OR ‘NAPMEL’:tn OR ‘NAPRELAN’:tn OR ‘NAPROBENE’:tn OR ‘NAPROGESIC’:tn OR  ‘NAPRONAX’:tn OR ‘NAPROREX’:tn OR ‘NAPROSYN’:tn OR ‘NAPROSYNE’:tn OR ‘NAPROVITE’:tn OR  ‘NAPROXEN’:tn OR ‘NAPROXENE’:tn OR ‘NAPROXENO’:tn OR ‘NAROCIN’:tn OR ‘NAXEN’:tn OR ‘NAXEN - F’:tn OR ‘NAXYN’:tn OR ‘NOVO -NAPROX’:tn OR ‘NAPROX’:tn OR ‘PREXAN’:tn OR ‘PRONAXEN’:tn OR  ‘PROXEN’:tn OR ‘SYNFLEX’:tn OR ‘ -NAPROXEN’:tn OR ‘XENAR’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   97. Desloratadine   ‘DESLORATADINE’ OR ‘DESLORATADIN’ OR ‘DESLORATADÍN’ OR ‘DESLOR ATADINA’ OR  ‘DESLORATADINĂ’ OR ‘DESLORATADYNA’ OR ‘DESLORATADĪNS’ OR ‘DESLORATADINAS’ OR  ‘DESLORATADINUM’ OR ‘DESLORATADINO’ OR ‘DESLÓRATADÍNI’ OR ‘DEZLORATADIN’ OR  ‘DESLORATADIN’ OR ‘DESLORATADINE’ OR ‘DESLORATADIN’ OR ‘DESLORATADINE’ OR  ‘DESLORATADIINI’ OR ‘DESLORATADIIN’ OR ‘DESLORATADINA’ OR ‘DESLORATADIN’ OR  ‘DESLORATADIN’ OR ‘DESLORATADINUM’ OR ‘AERINAZE’:tn OR ‘AERIUS’:tn OR ‘ALERDIN’:tn OR  ‘ALERIC DESLO’:tn OR ‘ALVOTADIN’:tn OR ‘AZOMYR’:tn OR ‘CLARDERIN’:tn OR ‘CLARUS’:tn OR  ‘DAREQ’:tn OR ‘DASSELTA’:tn OR ‘DEHISTAR’:tn OR ‘DELESIT’:tn OR ‘DELOCIFAR’:tn OR ‘DELOPES’:tn  OR ‘DELORIAR’:tn OR ‘DELORTAN’:tn OR ‘DENOVALS’:tn OR ‘DES -LORANO’:tn OR ‘DESADA’:tn OR  ‘DESLIX’:tn OR ‘DESLODYNA’:tn OR ‘DESLOMED’:tn OR ‘DESLOR’:tn OR ‘DESLORA’:tn OR  ‘DESLORACELL’:tn OR ‘DESLORADERM’:tn OR ‘DESLORAPHAR’:tn OR ‘DESLORASAM’:tn OR  ‘DESLORATADIN’:tn OR ‘DESLORATADIN’:tn OR ‘DESLORATADINA’:tn OR ‘DESLORATADINE’:tn OR  ‘DESLORATATINA’:tn OR ‘DESLORATATINE’:tn OR ‘DESLORDIS’:tn OR ‘DESLOREP’:tn OR ‘DILERET’:tn  OR ‘DYNID’:tn OR ‘EFESTAD’:tn OR ‘ESCONTRAL’:tn OR ‘ESRADIN’:tn OR ‘EVENORIN’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 142/368   ‘FLYNISE’:tn OR ‘GESLORA’:tn OR ‘GOLDESIN’:tn OR ‘HITAXA’:tn OR ‘HITAXA FAST’:tn OR  ‘INALLER’:tn OR ‘IRINOSPEN’:tn OR ‘JOVESTO’:tn OR ‘LADODIN’:tn OR ‘LODESDINETA’:tn OR  ‘LORABEL’:tn OR ‘LORDESTIN’:tn OR ‘LORIMAREN’:tn OR ‘LORINESPES’:tn OR ‘LOTERA’:tn OR ‘LUPIN - DESLORATADINE’:tn OR ‘MIDETORIN’:tn OR ‘NEOCLARITYN’:tn OR ‘PYLODES’:tn OR ‘RHINOHELP’:tn  OR ‘RINOTHANAL’:tn OR ‘RODISPES’:tn OR ‘SINALERG’:tn OR ‘SUPRODESLON’:tn OR ‘SYMDES’:tn OR  ‘TAHISTOL’:tn OR ‘TESLOR’:tn OR ‘TESLOR FAST’:tn OR ‘TESLOR FAST JUNIOR’:tn OR  ‘VASLOSPERAN’:tn OR ‘YOSQIERO’:tn OR ‘AERIUS’:tn OR ‘ALLEX’:tn OR ‘AVIANT’:tn OR ‘AZOMYR’:tn  OR ‘CLARAMAX’:tn OR ‘CLARINEX’:tn OR ‘DAZIT’:tn OR ‘DELODAY’:tn OR ‘DESALEX’:tn OR  ‘DESELEX’:tn OR ‘FRENALER’:tn OR ‘LORDESTIN’:tn OR ‘NEOCLARITYN’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   98. Exemestane   ‘EXEMESTANE’ OR ‘EXEMESTAN’ OR ‘EKSEMESTANA’ OR ‘EXEMESTANUM’ OR ‘EXEMESTAN’ OR  ‘EXEMESTANO’ OR ‘EKSEMESTAN’ OR ‘EKSEMESTAN’ OR ‘EXEMESTAAN’ OR ‘EXEMESTAN’ OR  ‘EKSEMESTĀNA’ OR ‘EKSEMESTĀNS’ OR ‘EKSEMESTANO’ OR ‘EKSEMESTANAS’ OR ‘EXEMESTANUM’ OR  ‘EXEMESTANE’ OR ‘EXEMESTAN’ OR ‘EXEMESZTÁN’ OR ‘EKSEMESTAN’ OR ‘EXEMESTANE’ OR  ‘EXÉMESTANE’ OR ‘EKSEMESTAANIA’ OR ‘EKSEMESTAANI’ OR ‘EKSEMESTAAN’ OR ‘EXEMESTANO’ OR  ‘EXEMESTAN’ OR ‘EXEMESTAN’ OR ‘EXEMESTANUM’ OR ‘ALVOSTAN’:tn OR ‘AROMASIL’:tn OR  ‘AROMASIN’:tn OR ‘AROMASINE’:tn OR ‘AROMESTAN’:tn OR ‘AROSTANIL’:tn OR ‘ASTEXANA’:tn OR  ‘AXELTA’:tn OR ‘BRESTAN’:tn OR ‘CLEOPA’:tn OR ‘COTAMOX’:tn OR ‘ESCEPRAN’:tn OR ‘ETADRON’:tn  OR ‘EXEBERTANEDEL’:tn OR ‘EXEDRAL’:tn OR ‘EXEGEN’:tn OR ‘EXEMAROM’:tn OR ‘EXEMASIN’:tn OR  ‘EXEMED’:tn OR ‘EXEMEDICA’:tn OR ‘EXEMESIN’:tn OR ‘EXEMESTAN’:tn OR ‘EXEMESTAN’:tn OR  ‘EXEMESTANE’:tn OR ‘EXEMESTANO’:tn OR ‘EXEMIN’:tn OR ‘EXEREGIO’:tn OR ‘EXESTAN’:tn OR  ‘EXÉMESTANE’:tn OR ‘FUNAMEL’:tn OR ‘GLANDEX’:tn OR ‘INPLAVIA’:tn OR ‘MEMELIN’:tn OR  ‘MESTANE’:tn OR ‘MESTANEX’:tn OR ‘NAKIDES’:tn OR ‘NATERAN’:tn OR ‘PERAMIT’:tn OR  ‘PIENSPEME’:tn OR ‘RIBOSTAN’:tn OR ‘SYMEX’:tn OR ‘TEARAN’:tn OR ‘XAGUENAM’:tn OR ‘XANEPRA’:tn  OR ‘XEMESTAN’:tn OR ‘AROMASIN’:tn OR ‘AROMASINE’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 143/368   'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   99. Ketoprofen   ‘KETOPROFEN’ OR ‘KETOPROFENE’ OR ‘KE TOPROFENA’ OR ‘KETOPROFÉNU’ OR ‘CETOPROFENO’ OR  ‘KETOPROFEN’ OR ‘KETOPROFĒNS’ OR ‘KETOPROFENAS’ OR ‘KET OPROFENO’ OR ‘KETOPROFENUM’ OR   ‘KETOPROFÉN’ OR ‘KÉTOPROFÈNE’ OR ‘KETOPROFEENI’ OR ‘K ETOPROFENO’ OR  ‘KETOPROFENUM’ OR  ‘ADOLQUIR’:tn OR ‘ALKET’:tn OR ‘ALRHEUMUN’:tn OR ‘ARDBEG’:tn OR ‘ARDBERG’:tn OR  ‘ARTROSILENE’:tn OR ‘BEGSAN’:tn OR ‘BI -PROFENID’:tn OR ‘BIPROFENID’:tn OR ‘BIROFENID’:tn OR  ‘CALMATEL’:tn OR ‘DESKETO’:tn OR ‘DEXADOL’:tn OR ‘DEXAK’:tn OR ‘DEXCETOPROFENO COMBINO’:tn  OR ‘DEXKETOPROFEN’:tn OR ‘DEXKETOPROFENO’:tn OR ‘DEXKETOPROFENO TROMETAMOL’:tn OR  ‘DEXOKET’:tn OR ‘DEXOMEN’:tn OR ‘DOLGOSIN’:tn OR ‘DRASTIREL’:tn OR ‘EFFEKTON’:tn OR  ‘ELERDANITE’:tn OR ‘ENANGEL’:tn OR ‘ENANTYUM’:tn OR ‘EUKETOS’:tn OR ‘EXTRAPLUS’:tn OR  ‘FARBOVIL’:tn OR ‘FASTUM’:tn OR ‘FEBROFEN’:tn OR ‘FLEXEN’:tn OR ‘GABRILEN GS GEGEN  SCHMERZEN’:tn OR ‘IBIFEN’:tn OR ‘JOMEZAL’:tn OR ‘KELIS’:tn OR ‘KENTIS’:tn OR ‘KEPLAT’:tn OR  ‘KERAL’:tn OR ‘KETALGESIC’:tn OR ‘KETESGEL’:tn OR ‘KETESSE’:tn OR ‘KETO’:tn OR ‘KETODEX’:tn OR  ‘KETODOL’:tn OR ‘KETOFARM’:tn OR ‘KETOMAG’:tn OR ‘KETOMEX’:tn OR ‘KETONAL’:tn OR  ‘KETOPLUS’:tn OR ‘KETOPROFEN’:tn OR ‘KETOPROFENE’:tn OR ‘KETOPROXIN’:tn OR ‘KETORES’:tn OR  ‘KETORET’:tn OR ‘KETORIN’:tn OR ‘KETOSELECT’:tn OR ‘KETOSPRAY’:tn OR ‘KETUM’:tn OR  ‘KNAVON’:tn OR ‘KOTEPHARM’:tn OR ‘KOTTAGE’:tn OR ‘KÉTROPROFENE ‘:tn OR ‘LARAFEN CR’:tn OR  ‘LIOTONDOL’:tn OR ‘LISACTIV GOLA’:tn OR ‘MENADEX’:tn OR ‘NOSATEL’:tn OR ‘OKI’:tn OR  ‘OKITASK’:tn OR ‘OPOKAN -KETO’:tn OR ‘ORALCARE’:tn OR ‘OROCHET’:tn OR ‘ORODEK’:tn OR  ‘ORUDIS’:tn OR ‘ORUVAIL’:tn OR ‘OSCOREL’:tn OR ‘PHARDOL KETOPROFEN SCHMERZGEL’:tn OR  ‘PICALM’:tn OR ‘POWERGEL’:tn OR ‘PROFEMIGR’:tn OR ‘PROFENID’:tn OR ‘PRONTOFLEX’:tn OR  ‘QUIRALAM’:tn OR ‘QUIRGEL’:tn OR ‘REFASTIN’:tn OR ‘ROFENID’:tn OR ‘ROFIXDOL’:tn OR  ‘RUBIFEN’:tn OR ‘SALONPAS’:tn OR ‘SIDURO’:tn OR ‘SOLU -KET’:tn OR ‘STADIUM’:tn OR ‘STEOFEN’:tn  OR ‘SYMPAL’:tn OR ‘TADOR’:tn OR ‘TILOKET’:tn OR ‘TOPREC’:tn OR ‘ULTRAFASTIN’:tn OR ‘VIAXAL’:tn  OR ‘YERASEL’:tn OR ‘ZEMALEX’:tn OR ‘ARTROSIL’:tn OR ‘ARTROSILENE’:tn OR ‘ARVELES’:tn OR ‘BI - PROFENID’:tn OR ‘BIPROFENID’:tn OR ‘CAPISTEN’:tn OR ‘DEXALGIN’:tn OR ‘DEXOMEN’:tn OR  ‘ENANTYUM’:tn OR ‘EPATEC’:tn OR ‘FASTUM’:tn OR ‘FLEXEN’:tn OR ‘KALTROFEN’:tn OR ‘KEPLAT’:tn OR  ‘KERAL’:tn OR ‘KETESSE’:tn OR ‘KETO’:tn OR ‘KETODOL’:tn OR ‘KETOFLAM’:tn OR ‘KETONAL’:tn OR  ‘KETOPROFEN’:tn OR ‘KETOPROFENE’:tn OR ‘KETOTOP’:tn OR ‘KETUM’:tn OR ‘LASONIL’:tn OR  ‘MEGEIDE’:tn OR ‘MILTAX’:tn OR ‘MOHRUS’:tn OR ‘MOHRUS PAP’:tn OR ‘ORUDIS’:tn OR ‘ORUVAIL’:tn  OR ‘OSCOREL’:tn OR ‘PATELL’:tn OR ‘PROFEMIGR’:tn OR ‘PROFENID’:tn OR ‘PRONTOKET’:tn OR  ‘RAYNANON’:tn OR ‘RIFERON’:tn OR ‘ROMAL’:tn OR ‘SECTOR’:tn OR ‘SPONDYLON’:tn OR ‘STADIUM’:tn  OR ‘TOUCHRON’:tn OR ‘ZON’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 144/368   'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   100.  Rivastigmine   ‘RIVASTIGMINE’ OR ‘RIVASTIGMIN’ OR ‘RIVASTIGMINUM’ OR ‘RIVASTIGMÍN’ OR ‘RIVASTIGMINA’ OR  ‘RIVASTIGMINA’ OR ‘RYWASTYGMINA’ OR ‘RIVASTIGMINAS’ OR ‘RIVASTIGMINUM’ OR ‘RIVASZTIGMIN’  OR ‘RIVASTIGMIINIA’ OR ‘RIVASTIGMINA’ OR ‘RIVASTIGMINE’ OR ‘RIVASTIGMIN’ OR  ‘RIVASTIGMINUM’ OR ‘ALMURIVA’:tn OR ‘ALZEST’:tn OR ‘BALAXON’:tn OR ‘DEMELORA’:tn OR  ‘ELUDEN’:tn OR ‘EMERPAND’:tn OR ‘EMPLARIV’:tn OR ‘ERASTIG’:tn OR ‘EVERTAS’:tn OR ‘EXELON’:tn  OR ‘EXIMINE XL’:tn OR ‘EXIVAS’:tn OR ‘IVAGALMIN’:tn OR ‘KERSTIPON’:tn OR ‘LARO’:tn OR  ‘LASIUM’:tn OR ‘MENTAZAC’:tn OR ‘MIESTIGACIN’:tn OR ‘NERVOPAN’:tn OR ‘NIMVASTID’:tn OR  ‘NOFLEBAN’:tn OR ‘ORIVAST’:tn OR ‘PERMENTE’:tn OR ‘PROMETAX’:tn OR ‘REBETIN’:tn OR  ‘RIDAXIN’:tn OR ‘RIGMIN’:tn OR ‘RILIMEBA’:tn OR ‘RISTIDIC’:tn OR ‘RIVAGMIN’:tn OR ‘RIVALDO’:tn  OR ‘RIVA’:tn OR ‘RIVANEL’:tn OR ‘RIVARIOUS’:tn OR ‘RIVASET’:tn OR ‘RIVASTGIMINE’:tn OR  ‘RIVASTIGMIN’:tn OR ‘RIVASTIGMINE’:tn OR ‘RIVASTIMGIN’:tn OR ‘RIVASTINOL’:tn OR ‘RIVELATIM’:tn  OR ‘RIVELON’:tn OR ‘RIVETAL’:tn OR ‘SIGNELON’:tn OR ‘SOMNITON’:tn OR ‘SYMELON’:tn OR  ‘TELOMENS’:tn OR ‘VIALON’:tn OR ‘VIVACTRA’:tn OR ‘VOLEZE’:tn OR ‘VOLEZE’:tn OR ‘XYPATCH’:tn OR  ‘EXELON’:tn OR ‘PROMETAX’:tn OR ‘RIVASTACH’:tn OR ‘RIVASTIGMIN’:tn OR ‘RIVASTIGMINE’:tn AND  ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti  OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 145/368   101.  Glyceryl Trinitrate   ‘GLYCERYL TRINITRATE’ OR ‘GLONOINUM’ OR ‘GLYCERYL TRINITRAT’ OR ‘1,3 -DINITROOXYPROPAN -2- YL NITRATE’ OR ‘GLYCEROL TRINITRATE’ OR ‘TRINITROGLYCERIN’ OR ‘GLYCEROL -TRINITRÁT’ OR  ‘GTN’ OR ‘NITROGLYCEROL’ OR ‘GLYCERYL -TRINITRATE’ OR ‘NITROGLYCERIN’ OR ‘GLICERIN - TRINITRÁT’ OR ‘TRINITRIN’ OR ‘GLYCERYLTRINITRAT’ OR ‘GLICERIL TRINITRAT’ OR  ‘GLYCEROLTRINITRÁT’ OR ‘TRINITRAT DE GLICERIL’ OR ‘NITROGLICERINA’ OR ‘TRINITRATO DE  GLICERILO’ OR ‘TRÓJNITROGLICERYNA’ OR ‘GLICEROLU TRIAZOTAN’ OR ‘GLYSEROLTRINITRAT’ OR  ‘GLYCERYLTRINITRAAT’ OR ‘GLYCERYL TRINITRATE’ OR ‘GLICERĪNA TRINITRĀTS’ OR ‘GLICEROLIO  TRINITRATO’ OR ‘GLICEROLIO TRINITRATAS’ OR ‘GLYCERYLUM TRINITRATUM’ OR ‘NITROGLICERINA’  OR ‘GLICERIN -TRINITRÁT’ OR ‘GLICERIN -TRINITRÁT’ OR ‘TRINÍOTRÁITE GHLIOCRÓIL’ OR ‘GLYCERYL  TRINITRATE’ OR ‘TRINITRINE’ OR ‘TRINITRATE DE GLYCÉRYLE’ OR ‘GLYSELYYLITRINITRAATTI’ OR  ‘GLYSERYYLITRINITRAATTI’ OR ‘GLÜTSERÜÜLTRINITRAAT’ OR ‘GLÜTSERÜÜLTRINITRAATI’ OR  ‘TRINITROGLICERINA’ OR ‘TRINITRATO DE GLICERILO’ OR ‘NITROGLICERINA’ OR ‘GLYCERYL  TRINITRATE’ OR ‘GLYCEROLTRINITRAT’ OR ‘GLYCERYLTRINITRAT’ OR ‘TRINITROGLYCEROL’ OR  ‘GLYCEROLI TRINITRAS’ OR ‘ACTHEANE’:tn OR ‘ADESICOR’:tn OR ‘ADESITRIN’:tn OR ‘ANGISED’:tn OR  ‘AP II N’:tn OR ‘AP XI N’:tn OR ‘CACTUS COMPOSITUM’:tn OR ‘CAFINITRINA’:tn OR ‘CARDIACUM -HEEL  T’:tn OR ‘CARDIOPLAST’:tn OR ‘CEFAVORA COR’:tn OR ‘COR COMPOSITUM -HEEL’:tn OR  ‘CORDIPATCH’:tn OR ‘CORDIPLAST’:tn OR ‘CORO -NITRO (CFC FREE)’:tn OR ‘CRATAEGUS COMPLEXE  N°15’:tn OR ‘CRATAEGUS N OLIGOPLEX’:tn OR ‘DEPONIT’:tn OR ‘DERMATRANS’:tn OR ‘DIAFUSOR’:tn  OR ‘DISCOTRINE’:tn OR ‘EPINITRIL’:tn OR ‘GLYCERYLNITRAT’:tn OR ‘GLYTRIN’:tn OR ‘GTN OR’:tn OR  ‘HOMVIOCORIN SPEZIAL’:tn OR ‘KERITRINA’:tn OR ‘MIGRÄNE’:tn OR ‘MINITRAN’:tn OR ‘NARANOCOR  HM’:tn OR ‘NATISPRAY’:tn OR ‘NEURO -DO’:tn OR ‘NIREDIL’:tn OR ‘NITRACOR’:tn OR ‘NITRADISC’:tn  OR ‘NITRAKET’:tn OR ‘NITRANGIN’:tn OR ‘NITRIDERM TTS’:tn OR ‘NITRO’:tn OR ‘NITRO POHL’:tn OR  ‘NITRO -DUR’:tn OR ‘NITROCARD’:tn OR ‘NITROCINE’:tn OR ‘NITROCOR’:tn OR ‘NITROCOR(R)’:tn OR  ‘NITRODYL’:tn OR ‘NITROFRIX’:tn OR ‘NITROGLICERIN’:tn OR ‘NITROGLICERINA’:tn OR  ‘NITROGLICERINĂ’:tn OR ‘NITROGLYCERIN’:tn OR ‘NITROLINGUAL’:tn OR ‘NITROMEX’:tn OR  ‘NITROMIN’:tn OR ‘NITROMINT’:tn OR ‘NITRONAL’:tn OR ‘NITRONG’:tn OR ‘NITROPLAST’:tn OR  ‘NITROSPRAY’:tn OR ‘NITROSYLON’:tn OR ‘NITROVEN’:tn OR ‘PANCORAN’:tn OR ‘PERCUTOL’:tn OR  ‘PERLINGANIT’:tn OR ‘PLASTRANIT’:tn OR ‘RECTOGESIC’:tn OR ‘RYTMOPASC’:tn OR  ‘SCHWÖROCARD’:tn OR ‘SOLINITRINA’:tn OR ‘SPIGELIA’:tn OR ‘STROPHANTHUS’:tn OR  ‘SUPRANITRIN’:tn OR ‘SUSCARD’:tn OR ‘SUSTAC’:tn OR ‘TRANSIDERM NITRO’:tn OR ‘TRINIPATCH’:tn  OR ‘TRINIPLAS’:tn OR ‘TRINISPRAY’:tn OR ‘TRINTEK’:tn OR ‘VENITRIN’:tn OR ‘VERNIES’:tn OR  ‘VERTIGO’:tn OR ‘VISKUM -ENTOXIN’:tn OR ‘YPSILOHEEL’:tn OR ‘ANGININE’:tn OR ‘ANGISED’:tn OR  ‘CORANGIN’:tn OR ‘DEPONIT’:tn OR ‘DIAFUSOR’:tn OR ‘DISCOTRINE’:tn OR ‘DYDRENE’:tn OR  ‘GLYTRIN’:tn OR ‘GTN OR’:tn OR ‘LENITRAL’:tn OR ‘LYCINATE’:tn OR ‘MAYCOR NITROSPRAY’:tn OR  ‘MEDITRANS’:tn OR ‘MILLIS’:tn OR ‘MILLISROL’:tn OR ‘MINITRAN’:tn OR ‘MINITRO’:tn OR ‘MYOCOR’:tn  OR ‘NIRMIN’:tn OR ‘NITRADISC’:tn OR ‘NITRANGIN’:tn OR ‘NITREK’:tn OR ‘NITRIDERM TTS’:tn OR  ‘NITRO’:tn OR ‘NITRO MACK’:tn OR ‘NITRO -BID’:tn OR ‘NITRO -DUR’:tn OR ‘NITRO -TIME’:tn OR  ‘NITROCERIN’:tn OR ‘NITROCINE’:tn OR ‘NITROCOR’:tn OR ‘NITRODERM’:tn OR ‘NITRODOM’:tn OR  ‘NITRODYL’:tn OR ‘NITROGLIN’:tn OR ‘NITROGLYCERIN’:tn OR ‘NITROKOR’:tn OR ‘NITROL’:tn OR  ‘NITROLINGUAL’:tn OR ‘NITROMEX’:tn OR ‘NITROMIN’:tn OR ‘NITROMINT’:tn OR ‘NITROMIST’:tn OR  ‘NITRONAL’:tn OR ‘NITRONG’:tn OR ‘NITROPELET’:tn OR ‘NITROPEN’:tn OR ‘NITROPLAST’:tn OR  ‘NITROQUICK’:tn OR ‘NITROSPRAY’:tn OR ‘NITROSTAT’:tn OR ‘PANCORAN’:tn OR ‘PERLINGANIT’:tn OR  ‘RECTIV’:tn OR ‘RECTOGESIC’:tn OR ‘RHO -NITRO’:tn OR ‘SODEMETHIN’:tn OR ‘SUSCARD’:tn OR  ‘SUSTAC’:tn OR ‘TRANSDERM NITRO PATCHES’:tn OR ‘TRANSDERM -NITRO’:tn OR ‘TRIDIL’:tn OR  ‘TRINIPATCH’:tn OR ‘TRINIPLAS’:tn OR ‘TRINITRINA’:tn OR ‘TRINITROSAN’:tn OR ‘VASOLATOR’:tn OR  ‘VENITRIN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 146/368   OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   102.  Piperacillin   ‘PIPERACILLIN’ OR ‘PIPERACILLINE’ OR ‘PIPERACILLINA’ OR ‘PIPERACILINA’ OR ‘PIPERACILINĂ’ OR  ‘PIPERACILINA’ OR ‘PIPERACYLINA’ OR ‘PIPERACILĪNU’ OR ‘PIPERACILLINUM’ OR ‘PIPERACILLINA’ OR  ‘PIPERACILIN’ OR ‘PIPÉRACILLINE’ OR ‘PIPERASILLIINIA’ OR ‘ACIPIRIN’:tn OR ‘BACTALIN’:tn OR  ‘GRAMENOX’:tn OR ‘IBITAZINA’:tn OR ‘LIMERIK’:tn OR ‘OLITEN’:tn OR ‘PERASIN’:tn OR  ‘PIPERACILLIN/TAZOBACTUM’:tn OR ‘PIPERAN’:tn OR ‘PIPERATO’:tn OR ‘PIPERCIN’:tn OR ‘PIPERIN’:tn  OR ‘PIPERTAZ’:tn OR ‘PIPETAZON’:tn OR ‘REPITA’:tn OR ‘TAVOCTAM’:tn OR ‘TAVOCTAME’:tn OR  ‘TAZEPEN’:tn OR ‘TAZIDRON’:tn OR ‘TAZIP’:tn OR ‘TAZOBAC’:tn OR ‘TAZOBACT’:tn OR  ‘TAZOCILLINE’:tn OR ‘TAZOCIN’:tn OR ‘TAZOPENIL’:tn OR ‘TAZOPROX’:tn OR ‘TAZOREX’:tn OR  ‘TEXTAZO’:tn OR ‘ZOBACTAM’:tn OR ‘ZOPECILIN’:tn OR ‘ZYTOBAKT’:tn OR ‘PIPERACILLINE  TAZOBACTAM’:tn OR ‘PIPERACILLINE/TAZOBACTAM’:tn OR ‘PIPITAZ’:tn OR ‘TAZOBAC’:tn OR  ‘TAZOCILLINE’:tn OR ‘TAZOCIN’:tn OR ‘TAZONAM’:tn OR ‘TAZPEN’:tn OR ‘ZOSYN’:tn AND ('adverse  drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR  'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim        European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 147/368   103.  Doxazosin   ‘DOXAZOSIN’ OR ‘DOXAZOSINUM’ OR ‘DOKSAZOSYNA’ OR ‘DOKSAZOSĪNS’ OR ‘DOKSAZOSINAS’ OR  ‘DOXAZOSINUM’ OR ‘DOXAZOSINE’ OR ‘DOXAZOSIN’ OR ‘ALFADIL’:tn OR ‘DOXAN 1’:tn OR  ‘ASCALAN’:tn OR ‘ATENSIL’:tn OR ‘BENUR’:tn OR ‘CARDOREG’:tn OR ‘CARDOSIN’:tn OR  ‘CARDULAR’:tn OR ‘CARDURA’:tn OR ‘CARSEM’:tn OR ‘COLIXIL’:tn OR ‘DEDRALEN’:tn OR ‘DILUR’:tn  OR ‘DOSANO’:tn OR ‘DOXA’:tn OR ‘DOXA -PUREN’:tn OR ‘DOXACAR’:tn OR ‘DOXACHARVI’:tn OR  ‘DOXACIN’:tn OR ‘DOXACOR’:tn OR ‘DOXADURA’:tn OR ‘DOXAFIN’:tn OR ‘DOXAGAL’:tn OR  ‘DOXAGAMMA’:tn OR ‘DOXAGEN’:tn OR ‘DOXALEK’:tn OR ‘DOXALFA’:tn OR ‘DOXALONG’:tn OR  ‘DOXAMID XL’:tn OR ‘DOXAND XL’:tn OR ‘DOXANE XL’:tn OR ‘DOXANORM’:tn OR ‘DOXAPLEX’:tn OR  ‘DOXAPRESS’:tn OR ‘DOXAR’:tn OR ‘DOXARUTIS’:tn OR ‘DOXASIN’:tn OR ‘DOXASTAD’:tn OR  ‘DOXATAN’:tn OR ‘DOXAZOSIN’:tn OR ‘DOXAZOSIN’:tn OR ‘DOXAZOZIN’:tn OR ‘DOXEL’:tn OR  ‘DOXONEX’:tn OR ‘DOXZOGEN’:tn OR ‘DOZOX’:tn OR ‘HIBADREN’:tn OR ‘HYPEREZE’:tn OR  ‘HYXAZIN’:tn OR ‘JUTALAR’:tn OR ‘KAMIREN’:tn OR ‘KIMURA’:tn OR ‘MAGURAN’:tn OR ‘MAGUROL’:tn  OR ‘NORADOX’:tn OR ‘NORMOTHEN’:tn OR ‘OXANDOSIN’:tn OR ‘PROGANDOL’:tn OR  ‘PROSTAZOCIN’:tn OR ‘QUORUM’:tn OR ‘RAPORSIN’:tn OR ‘SAIDOX’:tn OR ‘SLOCINX’:tn OR  ‘SUPRESSIN’:tn OR ‘TONOCARDIN’:tn OR ‘URIDUCT’:tn OR ‘ZOXAN LP’:tn OR ‘ZOXON’:tn OR  ‘ALFADIL’:tn OR ‘ALFLOSIN’:tn OR ‘DOXAZOSIN’:tn OR ‘ARTEZINE’:tn OR ‘BENUR’:tn OR  ‘CADEMESIN’:tn OR ‘CADEX’:tn OR ‘CALMESOSYN’:tn OR ‘CARBADOGEN’:tn OR ‘CARDENALIN’:tn OR  ‘CARDONAN’:tn OR ‘CARDORAL’:tn OR ‘CARDOXAN’:tn OR ‘CARDULAR’:tn OR ‘CARDURA’:tn OR  ‘CARDURAN’:tn OR ‘DIBLOCIN’:tn OR ‘DONASHIN’:tn OR ‘DOXABEN’:tn OR ‘DOXACOR’:tn OR  ‘DOXALOC’:tn OR ‘DOXANORM’:tn OR ‘DOXASIN’:tn OR ‘DOXAZON’:tn OR ‘DOXAZOSIN’:tn OR  ‘DUOMO’:tn OR ‘KAMIREN’:tn OR ‘KAZMARIN’:tn OR ‘SUPRESSIN’:tn OR ‘TATSUZOSIN’:tn OR  ‘UNOPROST’:tn OR ‘ZOXAN LP’:tn OR ‘ZOXON’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim         European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 148/368   104.  Estradiol   ‘ESTRADIOL’ OR ‘17BETA -ESTRADIOL’ OR ‘OESTRADIOL’ OR ‘ESTRADIOL’ OR ‘ESTRADIOLA’ OR  ‘ESTRADIOL’ OR ‘ESTRADIOL’ OR ‘ESTRADIOL’ OR ‘ESTRADIOLU’ OR ‘ESTRADIOL’ OR ‘ESTRADIOL’ OR  ‘ØSTRADIOL’ OR ‘ESTRADIOL’ OR ‘ESTRADIOL’ OR ‘ESTRADIOLA’ OR ‘ESTRADIOLS’ OR ‘ESTRADIOLIS’  OR ‘ESTRADIOLIO’ OR ‘ESTRADIOLUM’ OR ‘ESTRADIOLUM’ OR ‘ESTRADIOLO’ OR ‘ESTRADÍÓL’ OR  ‘ÖSZTRADIOL’ OR ‘ESTRADIOL’ OR ‘ESTRADIOL’ OR ‘ESTRADIOLI’ OR ‘ESTRADIOLIA’ OR  ‘ÖSTRADIOOLI’ OR ‘ÖSTRADIOOL’ OR ‘ESTRADIOL’ OR ‘ESTRADIOL’ OR ‘ESTRADIOL’ OR ‘ESTRADIOL’  OR ‘ESTRADIOLUM’ OR ‘ACTIVELLE’:tn OR ‘AGOFOLLIN’:tn OR ‘ANGELIQ’:tn OR ‘ANGEMIN’:tn OR  ‘ARMONIL’:tn OR ‘AVADENE’:tn OR ‘CETURA’:tn OR ‘CLIFEMME’:tn OR ‘CLIMAGEST’:tn OR  ‘CLIMARA’:tn OR ‘CLIMASTON’:tn OR ‘CLIMAVAL’:tn OR ‘CLIMEN’:tn OR ‘CLIMENE’:tn OR  ‘CLIMESTA’:tn OR ‘CLIMODIEN’:tn OR ‘CLIMODIENE’:tn OR ‘CLIONARA’:tn OR ‘CLIOVELLAN’:tn OR  ‘CLIOVELLE’:tn OR ‘CYCLACUR’:tn OR ‘CYCLO -PROGYNOVA’:tn OR ‘CYCLOCUR’:tn OR ‘DELIDOSE’:tn  OR ‘DERMESTRIL’:tn OR ‘DILENA’:tn OR ‘DIVIGEL’:tn OR ‘DIVINA’:tn OR ‘DIVITREN’:tn OR  ‘DUOFEMME’:tn OR ‘DUOGESTAN’:tn OR ‘DUOVA’:tn OR ‘DÉLIDOSE’:tn OR ‘ELLESTE DUET’:tn OR  ‘EPIESTROL’:tn OR ‘ERCOSTROL’:tn OR ‘ESTALIS’:tn OR ‘ESTRADOT’:tn OR ‘ESTRADURIN’:tn OR  ‘ESTRADURINE’:tn OR ‘ESTRAGEST TTS’:tn OR ‘ESTRAHEXAL’:tn OR ‘ESTRAMON’:tn OR ‘ESTREVA’:tn  OR ‘ESTRIFAM’:tn OR ‘ESTRIMAX’:tn OR ‘ESTRING’:tn OR ‘ESTRODOSE’:tn OR ‘ESTROFEM’:tn OR  ‘ESTROGEL’:tn OR ‘ESTRONE/ ESTRADIOL/ ESTRIOL AMDIPHARM’:tn OR ‘EVIANA’:tn OR ‘EVO - SEQUI’:tn OR ‘EVOPAD’:tn OR ‘EVOREL’:tn OR ‘FEM7’:tn OR ‘FEMANEST’:tn OR ‘FEMANOR’:tn OR  ‘FEMASEKVENS’:tn OR ‘FEMASTON’:tn OR ‘FEMATAB’:tn OR ‘FEMILAR’:tn OR ‘FEMOSTON’:tn OR  ‘FEMPHASCYL CONTINU’:tn OR ‘FEMSEPT’:tn OR ‘FEMSEPTCOMBI’:tn OR ‘FEMSEPTEVO’:tn OR  ‘FEMSEVEN’:tn OR ‘FEMUREST -CONTI’:tn OR ‘FOLIVIRIN’:tn OR ‘GEORGETTE -30’:tn OR ‘GINAIKOS’:tn  OR ‘GYNAIKA’:tn OR ‘GYNODIAN DEPOT’:tn OR ‘GYNOKADIN’:tn OR ‘GYNOVEL’:tn OR ‘HORMONIN’:tn  OR ‘INDIVINA’:tn OR ‘KLAIRA’:tn OR ‘KLIANE’:tn OR ‘KLIMODIEN’:tn OR ‘KLIMONORM’:tn OR  ‘KLIOFEM’:tn OR ‘KLIOGEST’:tn OR ‘KLIOVANCE’:tn OR ‘LAFAMME’:tn OR ‘LINOLADIOL’:tn OR  ‘MENOVIS’:tn OR ‘MERICOMB’:tn OR ‘MERIESTRA’:tn OR ‘MERIMONO’:tn OR ‘MEVAREN’:tn OR  ‘MONTADIOL’:tn OR ‘NAEMIS’:tn OR ‘NEOFOLLIN’:tn OR ‘NOVIANA’:tn OR ‘NOVOFEM’:tn OR  ‘NOVOFEMME’:tn OR ‘OESCLIM’:tn OR ‘OESTRACLIN’:tn OR ‘OESTRING’:tn OR ‘OESTRODOSE’:tn OR  ‘OESTROGEL’:tn OR ‘OROMONE’:tn OR ‘PARAPANOL’:tn OR ‘PAUSOGEST’:tn OR ‘PERIFEM’:tn OR  ‘PROGYLUTON’:tn OR ‘PROGYNON’:tn OR ‘PROGYNOVA’:tn OR ‘PROVAMES’:tn OR ‘QLAIRA’:tn OR  ‘RISELLE’:tn OR ‘SANDRENA’:tn OR ‘SANESTRELLE’:tn OR ‘SEQUIDOT’:tn OR ‘SISARE’:tn OR ‘SISARE  MONO’:tn OR ‘SYSTEN’:tn OR ‘THAIS’:tn OR ‘THAISSEPT’:tn OR ‘TOTELLE’:tn OR ‘TREVINA’:tn OR  ‘TRIAKLIM’:tn OR ‘TRIDESTRA’:tn OR ‘TRISEKVENS’:tn OR ‘TRISEQUENS’:tn OR ‘TRIVINA’:tn OR  ‘TULITA’:tn OR ‘VAGIFEM’:tn OR ‘VELBIENNE MINI’:tn OR ‘VIVELLE DOT’:tn OR ‘VIVELLEDOT’:tn OR  ‘WELLNARA’:tn OR ‘ZUMENON’:tn OR ‘ÖSTRONARA’:tn OR ‘ØSTRADIOL’:tn OR ‘ACTIVELLA’:tn OR  ‘ACTIVELLE’:tn OR ‘AERODIOL’:tn OR ‘ALLURENE’:tn OR ‘ALORA’:tn OR ‘ANGELIQ’:tn OR ‘AVADEN’:tn  OR ‘AVADENE’:tn OR ‘CICLOPRIMOGYNA’:tn OR ‘CLIANE’:tn OR ‘CLIMARA’:tn OR ‘CLIMAVAL’:tn OR  ‘CLIMEN’:tn OR ‘CLIMENE’:tn OR ‘CLIMODIEN’:tn OR ‘COMBIPATCH’:tn OR ‘CYCLACUR’:tn OR ‘CYCLO - PROGYNOVA’:tn OR ‘DELESTROGEN’:tn OR ‘DERMESTRIL’:tn OR ‘DIHORMON’:tn OR ‘DILENA’:tn OR  ‘DIVIGEL’:tn OR ‘DIVINA’:tn OR ‘ELAMAX’:tn OR ‘ELESTRIN’:tn OR ‘ESTALIS’:tn OR ‘ESTRABETA’:tn OR  ‘ESTRACE’:tn OR ‘ESTRACOMB’:tn OR ‘ESTRADERM’:tn OR ‘ESTRADIOL’:tn OR ‘ESTRADOT’:tn OR  ‘ESTRAFEMOL’:tn OR ‘ESTRAGEST TTS’:tn OR ‘ESTRANA’:tn OR ‘ESTRAPATCH’:tn OR ‘ESTRASORB’:tn  OR ‘ESTRENA’:tn OR ‘ESTREVA’:tn OR ‘ESTRING’:tn OR ‘ESTRO -PAUSE’:tn OR ‘ESTRODOSE’:tn OR  ‘ESTROFEM’:tn OR ‘ESTROGEL’:tn OR ‘EVAMIST’:tn OR ‘EVIANA’:tn OR ‘EVOREL’:tn OR ‘FEMANOR’:tn  OR ‘FEMIEST’:tn OR ‘FEMOSTON’:tn OR ‘FEMSEVEN’:tn OR ‘FEMTRAN’:tn OR ‘FILENA’:tn OR  ‘GYNODIAN DEPOT’:tn OR ‘INDIVINA’:tn OR ‘INNOFEM’:tn OR ‘JULINA’:tn OR ‘KLIMONORM’:tn OR  ‘KLIOGEST’:tn OR ‘KLIOVANCE’:tn OR ‘LESTROGEL’:tn OR ‘MENOAID’:tn OR ‘MENOREST’:tn OR  ‘MENOSTAR’:tn OR ‘MERICOMB’:tn OR ‘MERIGEST’:tn OR ‘MIMVEY’:tn OR ‘MINIVELLE’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 149/368   ‘NATAZIA’:tn OR ‘NATIFA PRO’:tn OR ‘NOVOFEM’:tn OR ‘NUVELLE’:tn OR ‘OESCLIM’:tn OR  ‘OESTROGEL’:tn OR ‘OROMONE’:tn OR ‘OVAHORMON’:tn OR ‘POSTOVAL’:tn OR ‘PRIMOGYN’:tn OR  ‘PRIMOGYNA’:tn OR ‘PROGYLUTON’:tn OR ‘PROGYNON’:tn OR ‘PROGYNOVA’:tn OR ‘QLAIRA’:tn OR  ‘RISELLE’:tn OR ‘SANDRENA’:tn OR ‘SEQUIDOT’:tn OR ‘SISARE’:tn OR ‘SYSTEN’:tn OR ‘TOTELLE’:tn  OR ‘TRISEKVENS’:tn OR ‘TRISEQUENS’:tn OR ‘VAGIFEM’:tn OR ‘VIVELLE DOT’:tn OR ‘VIVELLE -DOT’:tn  OR ‘WELLNARA’:tn OR ‘ZUMENON’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   105.  Metoprolol   ‘METOPROLOL’ OR ‘BELNIF’:tn OR ‘BETABLOCKADE’:tn OR ‘BETALOC’:tn OR ‘BETAPROL’:tn OR  ‘BETO’:tn OR ‘BLOXAN’:tn OR ‘CARDOXONE’:tn OR ‘CORVITOL’:tn OR ‘DENEX’:tn OR ‘EGILOK’:tn OR  ‘FELODIPINE + METOPROLOL SUCCINATE’:tn OR ‘IGROTON -LOPRESOR’:tn OR ‘IVIPROLOL’:tn OR  ‘JEPROLOL’:tn OR ‘LANOC’:tn OR ‘LOGROTON’:tn OR ‘LOPRESOR’:tn OR ‘MECORLONG’:tn OR  ‘MEPROLOL’:tn OR ‘MEPRONET’:tn OR ‘MERTOLOK’:tn OR ‘METO’:tn OR ‘METO -SUCCINAT’:tn OR  ‘METOBETA’:tn OR ‘METOCAR’:tn OR ‘METOCARD’:tn OR ‘METOCELL’:tn OR ‘METOCOR’:tn OR  ‘METODURA’:tn OR ‘METOGEN SC’:tn OR ‘METOHEXAL’:tn OR ‘METO’:tn OR ‘METOP’:tn OR  ‘METOPROGAMMA’:tn OR ‘METOPROGEN’:tn OR ‘METOPROLOL’:tn OR ‘METOPROLOLSUCCINAT’:tn OR  ‘METOPROLOLUM 1’:tn OR ‘METOPROLOSUCCINAT’:tn OR ‘METORATIO’:tn OR ‘METOSUCC’:tn OR  ‘METOSUCCINAT’:tn OR ‘METOZOK’:tn OR ‘METPROLONG’:tn OR ‘PRELIS’:tn OR ‘SELMET’:tn OR  ‘SELOPRAL’:tn OR ‘SLOW -LOPRESOR’:tn OR ‘SUCCIPROL’:tn OR ‘SYMLOK SR’:tn OR ‘VASOCARDIN’:tn  OR ‘VASOCARDIN SR’:tn OR ‘VOXUTEN’:tn OR ‘METOPROLOL (TYPE L)’:tn OR ‘BELOC’:tn OR  ‘BELOKEN’:tn OR ‘BETALOC’:tn OR ‘BETAZOK’:tn OR ‘BLOXAN’:tn OR ‘CORVITOL’:tn OR ‘DENEX’:tn OR  ‘EGILOK’:tn OR ‘GEN -METOPROLOL’:tn OR ‘LOGIMAX’:tn OR ‘LOGROTON’:tn OR ‘LOPRESOR’:tn OR  ‘LOPROLOL’:tn OR ‘MELOC’:tn OR ‘MELUCOMON’:tn OR ‘MEPROLOL’:tn OR ‘METO’:tn OR  ‘METOCARD’:tn OR ‘METOHEXAL’:tn OR ‘METOP’:tn OR ‘METOPLIC’:tn OR ‘METOPROLIN’:tn OR  ‘METOPROLOL’:tn OR ‘METOPROLOLO’:tn OR ‘METOPROLOLSUCCINAAT’:tn OR  ‘METOPROLOLSUCCINAT’:tn OR ‘METOPROLOLTARTRAAT’:tn OR ‘METOZOK’:tn OR ‘METROL’:tn OR  ‘MINAX’:tn OR ‘ -METOPROLOL (TYPE L)’:tn OR ‘NEOBLOC’:tn OR ‘PMS -METOPROLOL -L’:tn OR  ‘PRELIS’:tn OR ‘SELO -ZOK’:tn OR ‘SELOKEEN’:tn OR ‘SELOKEN’:tn OR ‘SELOKENZOC’:tn OR  ‘SELOPRES ZOK’:tn OR ‘SELOZOK’:tn OR ‘SELOZOK FIX’:tn OR ‘SIPSERON’:tn OR ‘TOPROL -XL’:tn OR  ‘VASOCARDIN’:tn OR ‘ZEGMULAR’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 150/368   abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   106.  Morphine   ‘MORPHINE’ OR ‘MORFINA’ OR ‘MORPHINUM’ OR ‘MORFIINI’ OR ‘MORFIN’ OR ‘ACTISKENAN’:tn OR  ‘APO GO PEN’:tn OR ‘GO’:tn OR ‘APOFIN’:tn OR ‘APOGO’:tn OR ‘APOKINON’:tn OR ‘APOMORFIN’:tn OR  ‘APOMORFINA ARCHIMEDES’:tn OR ‘APOMORFINE HYDROCHLORIDE PHARMSWED’:tn OR  ‘APOMORPHIN’:tn OR ‘APOMORPHINE HYDROCHLORIDE’:tn OR ‘APOMORPHINHYDROCHLORID’:tn OR  ‘AYENDI’:tn OR ‘BRITAJECT’:tn OR ‘BUPIVACAIN -MORFIN’:tn OR ‘CAPROS’:tn OR ‘CARDIOSTENOL’:tn  OR ‘CLARIX TOUX SECHE SANS SUCRE’:tn OR ‘COCILLANA’:tn OR ‘COMPENSAN’:tn OR  ‘CONTALGIN’:tn OR ‘COSYLAN’:tn OR ‘CYCLIMORPH’:tn OR ‘DACEPTON’:tn OR ‘DIACETYLMORFINE’:tn  OR ‘DIAPHIN’:tn OR ‘DOLARISTO’:tn OR ‘DOLCONTIN’:tn OR ‘DOLQ 20 MG’:tn OR ‘DOLTARD’:tn OR  ‘DOPACEPTIN’:tn OR ‘EPHYDION’:tn OR ‘FILNARINE’:tn OR ‘INDALGIN’:tn OR ‘IPECACUANHA AND  MORPHINE MIXTURE BP’:tn OR ‘J COLLIS BROWNES MIXTURE’:tn OR ‘KAOLIN AND MORPHINE  MIXTURE BP’:tn OR ‘KAPANOL’:tn OR ‘LEPHETON’:tn OR ‘M -BETA’:tn OR ‘M -ESLON’:tn OR ‘M -LONG’:tn  OR ‘M -STADA’:tn OR ‘MALFIN’:tn OR ‘MEDIJECT’:tn OR ‘MORAPID’:tn OR ‘MORFIN’:tn OR ‘MORFIN - SKOPOLAMIN MEDA’:tn OR ‘MORFINA CLORIDRATO’:tn OR ‘MORFINA’:tn OR ‘MORFINE HCL’:tn OR  ‘MORFINESULFAAT’:tn OR ‘MORFINKLORID ALKALOID’:tn OR ‘MORFINĂ ZENTIVA’:tn OR ‘MORPH’:tn  OR ‘MORPHANTON’:tn OR ‘MORPHGESIC SR’:tn OR ‘MORPHIN’:tn OR ‘MORPHINE’:tn OR ‘MORPHINE  SULFATE’:tn OR ‘MORPHINHYDROCHLORID LANNACHER’:tn OR ‘MORPHINI HYDROCHLORIDUM’:tn OR  ‘MORPHINI SULFAS’:tn OR ‘MORPHINSULFAT’:tn OR ‘MORPHINUM HYDROCHLORICUM -’:tn OR  ‘MORZET’:tn OR ‘MOSCONTIN’:tn OR ‘MS CONTIN’:tn OR ‘MS DIRECT’:tn OR ‘MSR’:tn OR ‘MST’:tn OR  ‘MSTW’:tn OR ‘MUNDIDOL’:tn OR ‘MXL’:tn OR ‘ORAMORPH’:tn OR ‘RHOTARD’:tn OR ‘SEVREDOL’:tn OR  ‘SIROP  PETERS’:tn OR ‘SKENAN L.P.’:tn OR ‘SOLVIPECT COMP’:tn OR ‘SUBSTITOL’:tn OR ‘SULFATE DE  MORPHINE’:tn OR ‘TUSSETHYL’:tn OR ‘VENDAL’:tn OR ‘VILAN’:tn OR ‘WIAL’:tn OR ‘ZOMORPH’:tn OR  ‘ZYO’:tn OR ‘ACTISKENAN’:tn OR ‘ALGEDOL’:tn OR ‘ANALFIN’:tn OR ‘ANAMORPH’:tn OR ‘GO’:tn OR  ‘APOKINON’:tn OR ‘APOKYN’:tn OR ‘ASTRAMORPH’:tn OR ‘AVINZA’:tn OR ‘CONTALGIN’:tn OR  ‘CYCLIMORPH’:tn OR ‘DEPODUR’:tn OR ‘DIAMORPHINE’:tn OR ‘DIAPHIN’:tn OR ‘DIMORF’:tn OR  ‘DIOLAN’:tn OR ‘DOLCONTIN’:tn OR ‘DOLTARD’:tn OR ‘DURAMORPH’:tn OR ‘KADIAN (MORPHINE  SULFATE)’:tn OR ‘KAPANOL’:tn OR ‘M -ESLON’:tn OR ‘M -ESLON SR’:tn OR ‘M -LONG’:tn OR ‘M.O.S’:tn  OR ‘MORFIN’:tn OR ‘MORFINA’:tn OR ‘MORFINE HCL’:tn OR ‘MORPHES’:tn OR ‘MORPHIN’:tn OR  ‘MORPHINE’:tn OR ‘MORPHINE SULFATE’:tn OR ‘MOSCONTIN’:tn OR ‘MS CONTIN’:tn OR ‘MS  DIRECT’:tn OR ‘MS IR’:tn OR ‘MS -TWICELON’:tn OR ‘MSI’:tn OR ‘MSIR’:tn OR ‘MSR’:tn OR ‘MST’:tn OR  ‘OPSO’:tn OR ‘ORAMORPH’:tn OR ‘ORDINE’:tn OR ‘P GUARD’:tn OR ‘PACIF’:tn OR ‘PAREGORIC’:tn OR  ‘PMS-MORPHINE SULFATE SR’:tn OR ‘PREPENON’:tn OR ‘PRESERVATIVE -FREE DURAMORPH’:tn OR  ‘RATIO -MORPHINE’:tn OR ‘ROXANOL’:tn OR ‘MORPHINE SR’:tn OR ‘SEVRE -LONG’:tn OR ‘SEVREDOL’:tn     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 151/368   OR ‘SKENAN’:tn OR ‘STATEX’:tn OR ‘UPRIMA’:tn OR ‘VENDAL’:tn OR ‘VILAN’:tn OR ‘ZOMORPH’:tn AND  ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti  OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   107.  Isosorbide   ‘ISOSORBIDE’ OR ‘ISOSORBIDUM’ OR ‘ISOSORBIDE’ OR ‘ISOSORBIDA’ OR ‘ANGIOLONG LP’:tn OR  ‘ANGITATE’:tn OR ‘CARDOPAX’:tn OR ‘CARDOX’:tn OR ‘CARMIL’:tn OR ‘CARVASIN’:tn OR  ‘CEDOCARD’:tn OR ‘CHEMYDUR XL’:tn OR ‘CONPIN’:tn OR ‘CORONUR’:tn OR ‘DICONPIN’:tn OR  ‘DINIKET’:tn OR ‘DINIT’:tn OR ‘EFFOX’:tn OR ‘ELAN’:tn OR ‘ELANTAN’:tn OR ‘ETIMONIS XL, ZIOTAN  XL, IMO LA’:tn OR ‘FEM -MONO’:tn OR ‘FLINDIX’:tn OR ‘G -DIL’:tn OR ‘IMSO 20’:tn OR ‘ISANGINA’:tn  OR ‘ISDN’:tn OR ‘ISIB XL’:tn OR ‘ISMEXIN’:tn OR ‘ISMN’:tn OR ‘ISMO’:tn OR ‘ISO -LACER’:tn OR  ‘ISOCARD’:tn OR ‘ISODINIT’:tn OR ‘ISODUR’:tn OR ‘ISOKET’:tn OR ‘ISOMEL SR’:tn OR ‘ISOMON 20’:tn  OR ‘ISOMONIT’:tn OR ‘ISORDIL’:tn OR ‘ISOREM’:tn OR ‘ISOSORBE  40 MG’:tn OR ‘ISOSORBID  DINITRAT’:tn OR ‘ISOSORBIDDINITRAT’:tn OR ‘ISOSORBIDE DINITIRATE’:tn OR ‘ISOSORBIDE  MONOIDRATO ‘:tn OR ‘ISOSORBIDE MONOMITRATE’:tn OR ‘ISOSORBIDE MONONITRAAT’:tn OR  ‘ISOSORBIDE MONONITRATE’:tn OR ‘ISOSORBIDE MONONITRATO’:tn OR ‘ISOSORBIDE -5- MONONITRAAT’:tn OR ‘ISOSORBIDEMONONITRAAT’:tn OR ‘ISOSORBIDI MONONITRAS’:tn OR  ‘ISOSORBIDMONONITRAT’:tn OR ‘ISOSPAN’:tn OR ‘JENACARD ’:tn OR ‘LANGORAN’:tn OR ‘MITRATE’:tn  OR ‘MODISAL’:tn OR ‘MONIGEN’:tn OR ‘MONO MACK’:tn OR ‘MONOCINQUE’:tn OR ‘MONOCLAIR’:tn OR  ‘MONOKET’:tn OR ‘MONOLONG’:tn OR ‘MONOLONG’:tn OR ‘MONOMAX SR’:tn OR ‘MONOMIL’:tn OR  ‘MONONIT’:tn OR ‘MONONITRATO DE ISOSORBIDA NORMON’:tn OR ‘MONONITRATO DE  ISOSORBIDA’:tn OR ‘MONONITRATO DE ISOSSORBIDO ‘:tn OR ‘MONONITRON EP’:tn OR  ‘MONOPRONT’:tn OR ‘MONOREM’:tn OR ‘MONORYTHM’:tn OR ‘MONOSAN’:tn OR ‘MONOSORB’:tn OR  ‘MONOTAB’:tn OR ‘NITROSID’:tn OR ‘NITROSORBIDE’:tn OR ‘NITROSORBON’:tn OR ‘OLICARD’:tn OR  ‘ORMOX’:tn OR ‘PENSORDIL’:tn OR ‘PHENOBARBITAL PHARMVIT 30 MG’:tn OR ‘RELOSORB’:tn OR  ‘RISORDAN’:tn OR ‘SORBANGIL’:tn OR ‘SORBIMON’:tn OR ‘SORBONIT’:tn OR ‘SORMON’:tn OR  ‘TARDISC’:tn OR ‘TINIDIL’:tn OR ‘TRANGINA’:tn OR ‘TURIMONIT’:tn OR ‘UNIKET’:tn OR ‘XISMOX’:tn  OR ‘AIROCOOL’:tn OR ‘AISLAR’:tn OR ‘ANGISTAD’:tn OR ‘APATYA’:tn OR ‘ISDN’:tn OR ‘ISMN’:tn OR  ‘BIDIL’:tn OR ‘CARDIKET’:tn OR ‘CARDIONIL’:tn OR ‘CARDIOVAS’:tn OR ‘CARDOPAX’:tn OR  ‘CEDOCARD’:tn OR ‘CINCORDIL’:tn OR ‘CIRCRES’:tn OR ‘COLEB’:tn OR ‘CORADUR’:tn OR  ‘CORONEX’:tn OR ‘CORONUR’:tn OR ‘DIASERA -L’:tn OR ‘DILATRATE -SR’:tn OR ‘DINIT’:tn OR  ‘DOLAK’:tn OR ‘DURIDE’:tn OR ‘EFFOX’:tn OR ‘ELAN’:tn OR ‘ELANTAN’:tn OR ‘FARSORBID’:tn OR  ‘FRANDOL’:tn OR ‘IMDEX’:tn OR ‘IMDUR’:tn OR ‘IMTRATE’:tn OR ‘IS 5 MONO’:tn OR ‘ISDN’:tn OR  ‘ISMN’:tn OR ‘ISMO’:tn OR ‘ISMOX’:tn OR ‘ISO MACK’:tn OR ‘ISOBIDE’:tn OR ‘ISOCARD’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 152/368   ‘ISOCARDIDE’:tn OR ‘ISOKET’:tn OR ‘ISOMONIT’:tn OR ‘ISONITOLL’:tn OR ‘ISOPIT’:tn OR  ‘ISORBID’:tn OR ‘ISORDIL’:tn OR ‘ISOSORBIDE’:tn OR ‘ISOSORBIDE MONONITRAAT’:tn OR  ‘ISOSORBIDEDINITRAAT’:tn OR ‘ISOTRATE’:tn OR ‘ITOROL’:tn OR ‘JENACARD’:tn OR ‘KALLIANT SR’:tn  OR ‘KARDIKET’:tn OR ‘KARDIKET’:tn OR ‘L -OHNESGEN’:tn OR ‘MEDOCOR’:tn OR ‘MONICOR LP’:tn OR  ‘MONIZOL’:tn OR ‘MONO MACK’:tn OR ‘MONO -CEDOCARD’:tn OR ‘MONOCINQUE’:tn OR  ‘MONOCINQUE’:tn OR ‘MONOCORD’:tn OR ‘MONOCORDIL’:tn OR ‘MONODUR’:tn OR ‘MONOKET’:tn OR  ‘MONOLIN’:tn OR ‘MONOLONG’:tn OR ‘MONONIT’:tn OR ‘MONONIT’:tn OR ‘MONOSAN’:tn OR  ‘MONOSORB’:tn OR ‘MONOSTENASE’:tn OR ‘MONOTRIN’:tn OR ‘NITOROL’:tn OR ‘NITREX’:tn OR  ‘NITROSID’:tn OR ‘NITROSORBIDE’:tn OR ‘NITROUS’:tn OR ‘OLICARD’:tn OR ‘OXYCARDIN’:tn OR  ‘PEKTROL’:tn OR ‘PENTACARD’:tn OR ‘PRO -ISMN’:tn OR ‘PROMOCARD’:tn OR ‘RIFATAC’:tn OR  ‘RISORDAN’:tn OR ‘SAWADOL’:tn OR ‘SOPREROLE’:tn OR ‘SORBANGIL’:tn OR ‘SORBIDILAT’:tn OR  ‘SORBIDIN’:tn OR ‘TAISIROL’:tn OR ‘UNIKET’:tn OR ‘VASCARDIN’:tn OR ‘VASOTRATE’:tn AND  ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti  OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   108.  Loperamide   ‘LOPERAMIDE’ OR ‘LOPERAMIDUM’ OR ‘LOPÉRAMIDE’ OR ‘LOPERAMIDA’ OR ‘ARESTAL’:tn OR  ‘ARRET’:tn OR ‘ASDA DIARRHOEA RELIEF’:tn OR ‘C1000 DIARREEREMMER LOPERAMIDE HCL 2 MG’:tn  OR ‘CLARIMIDE DIARREA’:tn OR ‘DA DIARREEREMMER LOPERAMIDE HCL 2 MG’:tn OR ‘DIACURE’:tn  OR ‘DIAH -LIMIT’:tn OR ‘DIARETYL’:tn OR ‘DIARFIN’:tn OR ‘DIARREEREMMENDE LOPERAMIDE HCL’:tn  OR ‘DIARREEREMMER’:tn OR ‘DIARRHOEA RELIEF’:tn OR ‘DIARSTENE’:tn OR ‘DIARSTOP’:tn OR  ‘DIARZERO’:tn OR ‘DIASTROLIB’:tn OR ‘DIMOR’:tn OR ‘DIOCALM’:tn OR ‘DISSENTEN’:tn OR  ‘DURALOPID’:tn OR ‘DYOREN’:tn OR ‘DYSPAGON’:tn OR ‘ELISSAN’:tn OR ‘ENTEROBENE’:tn OR  ‘ERCESTOP’:tn OR ‘FORTASEC’:tn OR ‘GASTROWELL LOPERAMIDE’:tn OR ‘IDYL DIARREEREMMER  LOPERAMIDE HCL SDG FARMA’:tn OR ‘IMMEX’:tn OR ‘IMOCUR’:tn OR ‘IMODEX PLUS’:tn OR  ‘IMODIUM’:tn OR ‘IMODIUMCAPS’:tn OR ‘IMODIUMDUO’:tn OR ‘IMODIUMLINGUAL’:tn OR  ‘IMODIUMLIQUICAPS’:tn OR ‘IMOLOPE’:tn OR ‘IMOLOPESIM’:tn OR ‘IMOMED’:tn OR ‘IMOREVIN’:tn OR  ‘IMOSEC’:tn OR ‘INDIARAL’:tn OR ‘JUMBO DIARREEREMMER LOPERAMIDE HCI 2 MG’:tn OR ‘KRUIDVAT  DIARREEREMMER LOPERAMIDE HCI 2 MG’:tn OR ‘LAREMID’:tn OR ‘LEIDAPHARM DIARREEREMMER  LOPERAMIDE HCI 2 MG’:tn OR ‘LOMODINE’:tn OR ‘LOP -DIA’:tn OR ‘LOPA’:tn OR ‘LOPACUT’:tn OR  ‘LOPEDIUM’:tn OR ‘LOPEMIDOL’:tn OR ‘LOPER’:tn OR ‘LOPERAMID’:tn OR  ‘LOPERAMIDA/SIMETICONA’:tn OR ‘LOPERAMIDE’:tn OR ‘LOPERAMIDEHYDROCHLORIDE  SAMENWERKENDE APOTHEKERS’:tn OR ‘LOPERAMIDUM WZF POLFA’:tn OR ‘LOPERAN’:tn OR  ‘LOPERHOE’:tn OR ‘LOPERHOE AKUT’:tn OR ‘LOPERIUM’:tn OR ‘LOPERON’:tn OR ‘LOPERON DUO     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 153/368   EFEKT’:tn OR ‘LOPERUMA’:tn OR ‘LOPEX’:tn OR ‘LOPEXAL’:tn OR ‘LOPITUM’:tn OR ‘LOPRID’:tn OR  ‘LORIDE’:tn OR ‘LOSIBERE’:tn OR ‘LOSIDARU’:tn OR ‘LOSIKOLE’:tn OR ‘LOSILANE’:tn OR  ‘LOSIMIDO’:tn OR ‘LOSINOBA’:tn OR ‘LOSIPACO’:tn OR ‘LOSITALA’:tn OR ‘LOSIVECA’:tn OR  ‘LOSIWUTO’:tn OR ‘MIRATON’:tn OR ‘NEO -ENTEROSEPTOL’:tn OR ‘NEO -SEPTOL’:tn OR ‘NORIMODE’:tn  OR ‘NORMAKUT’:tn OR ‘NORMALOE’:tn OR ‘PERACEL’:tn OR ‘PRIMODIUM’:tn OR ‘RHEOSTOP’:tn OR  ‘SALVACOLINA’:tn OR ‘SELDIAR’:tn OR ‘SELIDAR’:tn OR ‘SINOLOP’:tn OR ‘STOPERAN’:tn OR  ‘TAMMEX’:tn OR ‘TRANSITYL INSTANT’:tn OR ‘TREKPLEISTER DIARREEREMMER LOPERAMIDE HCI 2  MG’:tn OR ‘VACONTIL’:tn OR ‘ANTI DIARRHEAL’:tn OR ‘ARESTAL’:tn OR ‘BETAPERAMIDE’:tn OR  ‘CLALET’:tn OR ‘DIACURE’:tn OR ‘DIARETYL’:tn OR ‘DIARRHEA RELIEF’:tn OR ‘DIASEC’:tn OR  ‘DIMOR’:tn OR ‘FORTASEC’:tn OR ‘GASTRO -STOP’:tn OR ‘GASTRON’:tn OR ‘IMODIUM’:tn OR  ‘IMODIUMLINGUAL’:tn OR ‘IMODIUMLIQUICAPS’:tn OR ‘IMOSEC’:tn OR ‘IMOSSEL’:tn OR ‘LOMOTIL’:tn  OR ‘LONBANIN’:tn OR ‘LOPECALD’:tn OR ‘LOPEDIUM’:tn OR ‘LOPEMIC’:tn OR ‘LOPEMID’:tn OR  ‘LOPEMIN’:tn OR ‘LOPENA’:tn OR ‘LOPERAMID -MEPHA’:tn OR ‘LOPERAMIDA’:tn OR ‘LOPERAMIDE’:tn  OR ‘LOPERAN’:tn OR ‘LOPERIN’:tn OR ‘LOPERMIDE’:tn OR ‘LOPERON’:tn OR ‘LOPEX’:tn OR  ‘LOPIMED’:tn OR ‘MIROPIN’:tn OR ‘NOVO -LOPERAMIDE’:tn OR ‘PMS -LOPERAMIDE’:tn OR  ‘PROTECTOR’:tn OR ‘ROSPOLIA’:tn OR ‘STOPIT’:tn OR ‘SUPRASEC’:tn OR ‘TAIPEMIN’:tn AND ('adverse  drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR  'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   109.  Telmisartan   ‘TELMISARTAN’ OR ‘TELMISARTANA’ OR ‘TELMISARTĀNS’ OR ‘TELMISARTĀNA’ OR ‘TELMISARTANO’ OR  ‘TELMISARTANAS’ OR ‘TELMISARTANUM’ OR ‘TELMISARTANI’ OR ‘TELMIZARTÁN’ OR  ‘TELMISARTAANIA’ OR ‘TELMISARTAANI’ OR ‘TELMISARTAAN’ OR ‘TELMISARTÁN’ OR  ‘TELMISARTANUM’ OR ‘ACTELSAR’:tn OR ‘ANGIOTON’:tn OR ‘DINORTES’:tn OR ‘DISMIROL’:tn OR  ‘DITERPRIS’:tn OR ‘ELICATOR’:tn OR ‘EVERTINE’:tn OR ‘HABALMA’:tn OR ‘KINZALMONO’:tn OR  ‘LEMETIC’:tn OR ‘MARTALONOLE’:tn OR ‘MELDOC’:tn OR ‘MICARDIS’:tn OR ‘MILDETISPES’:tn OR  ‘MILSERTAN’:tn OR ‘MIPRASAN’:tn OR ‘MIRPRESOC’:tn OR ‘MISAFAR’:tn OR ‘OSAN’:tn OR  ‘POLSART’:tn OR ‘PRITOR’:tn OR ‘PROMISOFAR’:tn OR ‘SELMATRAN’:tn OR ‘SITERBON’:tn OR  ‘STARAM’:tn OR ‘TANYDON’:tn OR ‘TARDIPAN’:tn OR ‘TELMABAX’:tn OR ‘TELMARK’:tn OR  ‘TELMICARD’:tn OR ‘TELMISARTAN’:tn OR ‘TELMIX’:tn OR ‘TELMIZEK’:tn OR ‘TELMOTENS’:tn OR  ‘TELSART’:tn OR ‘TELSPES’:tn OR ‘TENSOLIDIM’:tn OR ‘TERFEDEL’:tn OR ‘TESGRECO’:tn OR  ‘TOLURA’:tn OR ‘TORDINESPES’:tn OR ‘TЕЗЕО’:tn OR ‘WALLOSAN’:tn OR ‘ZANACODAR’:tn OR  ‘KINZAL’:tn OR ‘KINZALMONO’:tn OR ‘MICARDIS’:tn OR ‘PRITOR’:tn OR ‘TELMA’:tn OR ‘TELMICARD’:tn  AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 154/368   OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR  misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp  OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   110.  Glucose   'GLUCOSE' OR 'DEXTROSE' OR '(18F) FLUDEOXYGLUCOSE' OR 'DEKSTROZA' OR 'DESTROSIO' OR  DEXTROSE'/exp OR 'FLUDEOXYGLUCOSE (18F)' OR 'GLICOSE' OR 'GLIKOZE' OR 'GLIUKOZE' OR  'GLIUKOZĖ' OR 'GLUCOSA' OR GLUCOSE'/exp OR 'GLUCOSIO' OR 'GLUCOZĂ' OR 'GLÜKOOS' OR  'GLUKOOSI' OR 'GLUKOS' OR 'GLUKOSA' OR 'GLÚKÓSA' OR 'GLUKOSE' OR 'GLÜKÓZ' OR 'GLUKOZA' OR  'GLUKÓZA' OR '(18F) FLUDEOXYGLUCOSE IBA':tn OR '[18F] FLUDEOXYGLUCOSE IBA':tn OR  '[18F]FDG':tn OR '[18F]FLUDEOKSIGLUKOZA IBA':tn OR '[18F]FLUDEOXYGLUCOSE  ECKERT&ZIEGLER':tn OR 'ACCU -CHEK':tn OR 'ALCALOSIO':tn OR 'AMINOMIX 3 NOVUM':tn OR  'ANHYDROUS GLUCOSE':tn OR 'ANTICOAGULANTE ACD':tn OR 'APIROSERUM GLUCOSADO':tn OR  'BARNASCAN':tn OR 'BEECHAMS CHESTY COUGH':tn OR 'BUTTERCUP HONEY & LEMON FLAVOUR':tn  OR 'BUTTERCUP':tn OR 'CLINIMIX N12G20':tn OR 'CONTRACER':tn OR 'CORAMINE GLUCOSE':tn OR  'DEXTRAN':tn OR 'DEXTROSA':tn OR 'DEXTROSE':tn OR 'EFDEGE':tn OR 'ERTRACER':tn OR 'FDG':tn OR  'FID-F':tn OR 'FLUCIS':tn OR 'FLUDEOKSYGLUKOZA EURO -PET':tn OR 'FLUDEOXIGLUCOSE (18F)  IBA':tn OR 'FLUDEOXIGLUKOS (18F) IBA':tn OR 'FLUDEOXYGLUCOSE (18) IBA':tn OR  'FLUDEOXYGLUCOSE (18F) ECKERT & ZIEGLER':tn OR 'FLUDEOXYGLUCOSE (18F) GE HEALTHCARE':tn  OR 'FLUDEOXYGLUCOSE (18F) IBA':tn OR 'FLUDEOXYGLUCOSE (18F) INJECTION':tn OR  'FLUDEOXYGLUCOSE (18F) MCA':tn OR 'FLUDESOXIGLUCOSA (18F) IBA':tn OR 'FLUDESOXYGLUCOSE  (18F) IBA':tn OR 'FLUDÉSOXYGLUCOSE (18F) IBA':tn OR 'FLUODEOSSIGLUCOSIO (18F ) IBA':tn OR  'FLUODOS':tn OR 'FLUORINE (18F) FLUDEOXYGLUCOSE':tn OR 'FLUORODESOXYGLUCOSE (18F)  IBA':tn OR 'FLUOTRACER':tn OR 'FOURCHESTRA ELEKTROLYTFRI':tn OR 'GAMBROSOL TRIO 10':tn OR  'GLUCOCEMIN':tn OR 'GLUCOMPET':tn OR 'GLUCOS VIAFLO':tn OR 'GLUCOS':tn OR 'GLUCOSADA':tn  OR 'GLUCOSADO 20% BRAUN':tn OR 'GLUCOSE':tn OR 'GLUCOSE -1-PHOSPHAT':tn OR 'GLUCOSE - INFUSIONSLÖSUNG 5':tn OR 'GLUCOSE -LÖSUNG':tn OR 'GLUCOSI INFUNDIBILE':tn OR 'GLUCOSI':tn  OR 'GLUCOSIO':tn OR 'GLUCOSTERIL':tn OR 'GLUCOSUM FRESENIUS':tn OR 'GLUCOSUM':tn OR  'GLUCOTEP':tn OR 'GLUCOZA':tn OR 'GLUKOS':tn OR 'GLUKOSE ISOTONISK':tn OR 'GLUKOSE':tn OR  'GLUKOSE -KALIUMFOSFAT':tn OR 'GLUKÓZ':tn OR 'GLÜKÓZ':tn OR 'GLÜKÓZ -1-FOSZFÁT':tn OR  'GLUKOZA':tn OR 'GLUKOZY':tn OR 'GLU -PHOS':tn OR 'GLUSCAN':tn OR 'GLUTOSE':tn OR 'GX':tn OR  'INSTA -GLUCOSE':tn OR 'ISODEX':tn OR 'KABIVEN':tn OR 'KIDIAMIX G SENZA POTASSIO':tn OR  'KIDIAMIX G START':tn OR 'KRINUVEN':tn OR 'MEDNUTRIFLEX LIPIDE':tn OR 'METASCAN':tn OR  'METATRACE FDG':tn OR 'MIDPELIQ L':tn OR 'MIDPELIQ':tn OR 'MIXAMIN GLUCOS ELEKTROLYTFRI':tn  OR 'NATTERMANN MELROSUM':tn OR 'NUTRIFLEX LIPID':tn OR 'NUTRIFLEX PLUS':tn OR 'NUTRIFLEX  SPECIAL':tn OR 'NUTRISPECIAL LIPID SENZA ELETTROLITI':tn OR 'OLICLINOMEL N4 -550':tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 155/368   'OLIMEL':tn OR 'PEDIAVEN GLUCOSE KALIUMFREI':tn OR 'PEDIAVEN':tn OR 'PELOL':tn OR  'PERIKABIVEN':tn OR 'PHOCYTAN':tn OR 'PLAST -APYR':tn OR 'PLUSFLEX':tn OR 'QUATRIGA  ELEKTROLYTFRI':tn OR 'REANUTRIFLEX LIPIDE':tn OR 'REPLAVITE':tn OR 'SMOFKABIVEN':tn OR  'SOLUCIÓN GLUCOSADA':tn OR 'SOLUTION INJECTABLE DE GLUCOSE':tn OR 'SOLUZIONE DI  EUROCOLLINS':tn OR 'SOLUZIONE PER DIALISI PERITONEALE':tn OR 'SOLUZIONE PER EMODIALISI  CONCENTRATA CON ACETATO GALENICA SENESE':tn OR 'SOLUZIONE PER EMOFILTRAZIONE  GALENICA SENESE':tn OR 'SOLUZIONE PER EMOFILTRAZIONE':tn OR 'SOLUZIONI PER  EMOFILTRAZIONE':tn OR 'SPECIALFLEX':tn OR 'STERIPET':tn OR 'STRUCTOKABIVEN  ELEKTROLYTFREI':tn OR 'STRUCTOKABIVEN ELEKTROLYTFRI':tn OR 'STRUCTOKABIVEN SEM  ELECTRÓLITOS':tn OR 'SUERO GLUCOSADO':tn OR 'TRELAN':tn OR 'TRIMIX ISOKAL':tn OR 'TRIMIX  MOF':tn OR 'TRIMIX NEPHRO':tn OR 'TRIMIX PERIKAL':tn OR 'TRIPAREN':tn OR 'VEEN -D':tn OR  'VENOS':tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim       111.  Rabeprazole   ‘RABEPRAZOLE’ OR ‘RABEPRAZOL’ OR ‘RABEPRAZOLUM’ OR ‘RABÉPRAZOLE’ OR ‘RABEPRAZOL’ OR  ‘ACILESOL’:tn OR ‘ACIPHEX’:tn OR ‘AIRCODOS’:tn OR ‘AKIRAB’:tn OR ‘ARES’:tn OR ‘BACANERO’:tn OR  ‘BEPRASYN’:tn OR ‘BERIZAR’:tn OR ‘BERLEX’:tn OR ‘BEROX’:tn OR ‘BERYX’:tn OR ‘FALIRAM’:tn OR  ‘FARDOLE’:tn OR ‘GELBRA’:tn OR ‘JELGRAD’:tn OR ‘MEDOTIS’:tn OR ‘PARIET’:tn OR ‘PRABER’:tn OR  ‘PRABEXOL 10 MG’:tn OR ‘PRABEXOL 20 MG’:tn OR ‘RABECELL’:tn OR ‘RABECOLE 10 MG’:tn OR  ‘RABECOLE 20 MG’:tn OR ‘RABEMAN’:tn OR ‘RABEPRAZOL’:tn OR ‘RABEPRAZOLNATRIUM’:tn OR  ‘RABEPRAZOLO’:tn OR ‘RABEX 10 MG COMPRESSE’:tn OR ‘RABEZOL’:tn OR ‘RABIFAR’:tn OR  ‘RABROL’:tn OR ‘RABYPREX’:tn OR ‘RADISOL’:tn OR ‘RALIC’:tn OR ‘RAPESPES’:tn OR ‘RAPEZIUM’:tn  OR ‘RAPOXOL’:tn OR ‘RASODIN’:tn OR ‘RAZOLE’:tn OR ‘RODESA’:tn OR ‘STOM’:tn OR ‘VAGRILANE’:tn  OR ‘ZIBEPAR’:tn OR ‘ZULBEX’:tn OR ‘ACIPHEX’:tn OR ‘PARIET’:tn OR ‘RABEPRAZOLE’:tn OR  ‘RABETRA’:tn OR ‘RABEZOL’:tn OR ‘RABZOLE’:tn OR ‘RABEPRAZOLE EC’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 156/368   terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   112.  Oxaliplatin   ‘OXALIPLATIN’ OR ‘CYCLOHEXANE1,2DIAMINE; OXALATE; PLATINUM(+2) CATION’ OR ‘OXALIPLATIN’  OR ‘OXALIPLATIN’ OR ‘OXALIPLATINĂ’ OR ‘OXALIPLATINA’ OR ‘OKSALIPLATYNA’ OR ‘OKSALIPLATYN’  OR ‘OKSALIPLATIN’ OR ‘OXALIPLATINE’ OR ‘OKSALIPLATĪNA’ OR ‘OKSALIPLATINOS’ OR  ‘OXALIPLATINUM’ OR ‘OXALIPLATINT’ OR ‘OXALIPLATINE’ OR ‘DOXALIPLATINE’ OR ‘OXALIPLATINUM’  OR ‘OKSALIPLATIINIA’ OR ‘OKSALIPLATIINI’ OR ‘OXALIPLATIN’ OR ‘OXALIPLATIN’ OR  ‘OXALIPLATINUM’ OR ‘CROLOXAT’:tn OR ‘DACPLAT’:tn OR ‘EBEOXAL’:tn OR ‘ELATOFEN’:tn OR  ‘ELOXATIN’:tn OR ‘ELOXATINE’:tn OR ‘EUROXALIPLATIN’:tn OR ‘GENEPLATIN’:tn OR ‘GESSEDIL’:tn OR  ‘LINOXAL’:tn OR ‘MEDOXA’:tn OR ‘OKSALIPLATIIN’:tn OR ‘OXALIPATIN’:tn OR ‘OXALIPLAN’:tn OR  ‘OXALIPLATIN’:tn OR ‘OXALIPLATINAB’:tn OR ‘OXALIPLATINCR’:tn OR ‘OXALIPLATINPR’:tn OR  ‘OXALIPLATIN’:tn OR ‘OXALIPLATINE’:tn OR ‘OXALIPROL’:tn OR ‘OXALIQUID’:tn OR ‘OXALISAN’:tn OR  ‘OXALISIN’:tn OR ‘OXALITOM’:tn OR ‘OXALIZOR’:tn OR ‘OXALTINA’:tn OR ‘OXAMED’:tn OR ‘OXAVIATIN  5MG/ML’:tn OR ‘PLATOX’:tn OR ‘PLAXITIN’:tn OR ‘REXAP’:tn OR ‘REZIDOL’:tn OR ‘RIBOXATIN’:tn OR  ‘SINOXAL’:tn OR ‘VELMINOX’:tn OR ‘XOPLAN’:tn OR ‘DACPLAT’:tn OR ‘ELOXATIN’:tn OR  ‘ELOXATINE’:tn OR ‘ELOXITAN’:tn OR ‘ELPLAT’:tn OR ‘EVOXALI’:tn OR ‘OXALICCORD’:tn OR  ‘OXALIP’:tn OR ‘OXALIPLATIN’:tn OR ‘OXALIPLATINE’:tn OR ‘OXITAN’:tn OR ‘SINDOXPLATIN’:tn OR  ‘SINOXAL’:tn OR ‘OXALI’:tn OR ‘UXALUN’:tn OR ‘WINTHROP OXALIPLATIN’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 157/368   113.  Colecalciferol   ‘COLECALCIFEROL’ OR ‘CHOLÉCALCIFÉROL’ OR ‘VITAMIN D 3’ OR ‘CHOLECALCIFEROLUM’ OR  ‘COLECALCIPHEROL’ OR ‘VITAMIN D3’ OR ‘KOLEKALCIFEROL’ OR ‘COLECALCIFEROL’ OR  ‘COLECALCIFEROL’ OR ‘VITAMINA D3’ OR ‘CHOLEKALCIFEROL’ OR ‘CHOLEKALCYFEROL’ OR  ‘COLECALCIFEROL’ OR ‘CHOLEKALCIFEROLIS’ OR ‘COLECALCIFEROLO’ OR ‘KOLEKALCIFEROL’ OR  ‘KOLEKALCIFEROL’ OR ‘COLÉCALCIFÉROL’ OR ‘CHOLÉCALCIFÉROL’ OR ‘COLECALCIFEROL’ OR  ‘COLECALCIFEROL’ OR ‘CHOLEKALCIFEROL’ OR ‘ADALBEN’:tn OR ‘ADISTEROLO’:tn OR ‘ADRIGYL’:tn  OR ‘ALVIDOR’:tn OR ‘ANNISTER’:tn OR ‘AQUADETRIM’:tn OR ‘AVITICOL’:tn OR ‘BIDIAM’:tn OR  ‘BONECOLE’:tn OR ‘CA -D’:tn OR ‘CADELIUS D’:tn OR ‘CALCHICHEW -D3 FORT’:tn OR ‘CALCI -BONED3  ORANGE’:tn OR ‘CALCI -CHEW D3’:tn OR ‘CALCICARE -D3’:tn OR ‘CALCICHEW D3’:tn OR ‘CALCIDURAN  VIT. D3’:tn OR ‘CALCIFLEX -D3’:tn OR ‘CALCIGRAN’:tn OR ‘CALCIGRAN FORTE’:tn OR ‘CALCIO D’:tn OR  ‘CALCIORAL D3’:tn OR ‘FORTE’:tn OR ‘CALCIORAL D3’:tn OR ‘CALCIU COLECALCIFEROL BÉRES 600  MG/400 UI’:tn OR ‘CALCIU D3 FORTE’:tn OR ‘CALCIU D3 PLUS’:tn OR ‘CALCIUM CHOLECALCIFEROL  BÉRES’:tn OR ‘CALCIUM VIT.D3’:tn OR ‘CALCIUM VITAMINE D3 ‘:tn OR ‘CALCIUM VITAMINE D3’:tn OR  ‘CALCIUM WYETH’:tn OR ‘CALCIUM -D3’:tn OR ‘CALCIUM -DURA’:tn OR ‘CALCIUP D3’:tn OR  ‘CALCIVID’:tn OR ‘CALCIVID CITRAT’:tn OR ‘CALEGOM VITAMINE D3’:tn OR ‘CALFOVIT D3’:tn OR  ‘CALISVIT’:tn OR ‘CALPLUS D3’:tn OR ‘CALPLUSD3’:tn OR ‘CHOLECALCIFEROL’:tn OR ‘CRAMPEX  TABLETS’:tn OR ‘D MED’:tn OR ‘D -CALSOR’:tn OR ‘D -CURA’:tn OR ‘D -CURE’:tn OR ‘D -FLUORETTEN’:tn  OR ‘D -VITAMIN OLJA ACO’:tn OR ‘D -VITAMIN VATTEN ACO’:tn OR ‘D3 -CALCIUM OSTEOPOROSE - TABLETTEN’:tn OR ‘D3VIT’:tn OR ‘DECAL’:tn OR ‘DEKRISTOL’:tn OR ‘DEKRISTOLMIN’:tn OR  ‘DELTIUS’:tn OR ‘DESUNIN’:tn OR ‘DETREMIN’:tn OR ‘DEVARON 400 IU’:tn OR ‘DEVARON  TABLETTEN’:tn OR ‘DEVIKAP’:tn OR ‘DEVITRE’:tn OR ‘DIBASE’:tn OR ‘DIVISUN’:tn OR ‘DYNAVIT D3’:tn  OR ‘EGOSTAR’:tn OR ‘EPTAVIT’:tn OR ‘FEROLINE’:tn OR ‘FLUOR -VIGANTOLETTEN’:tn OR  ‘FOSCALD3’:tn OR ‘FULTIUM -D3’:tn OR ‘HELIODREI’:tn OR ‘HELIOS’:tn OR ‘IBERCAL -D’:tn OR  ‘IDÉOS’:tn OR ‘INVITA D3’:tn OR ‘JEKOVIT D3’:tn OR ‘JUVIT D3’:tn OR ‘KALCIJ/VITAMIN D3 LEK’:tn  OR ‘KALCIPOS’:tn OR ‘KALCIUM/KOLEKALCIFEROL BÉRES’:tn OR ‘LECALCIF’:tn OR ‘MASTICAL D’:tn OR  ‘MENCALISVIT’:tn OR ‘MINADEX’:tn OR ‘MINADEX TONIC’:tn OR ‘MOLINAR’:tn OR ‘NYCOPLUS’:tn OR  ‘OLEOVIT D3’:tn OR ‘ORBICAL -D3’:tn OR ‘OROCAL D3’:tn OR ‘OSMILLE D’:tn OR ‘OSTEOFOS’:tn OR  ‘OSTEOFOSD3’:tn OR ‘OSTEOMERCK’:tn OR ‘OSTRAM VITAMINE D3’:tn OR ‘OSVICAL D’:tn OR  ‘PLENACHOL’:tn OR ‘PLIVIT D3’:tn OR ‘PLIVIT D3 KAPLJICE’:tn OR ‘RECIFOR’:tn OR ‘STEOVIT D3’:tn  OR ‘STEOVIT FORTE’:tn OR ‘TACAL D3’:tn OR ‘TEPOX -CAL D’:tn OR ‘THORENS’:tn OR ‘TREDIMIN’:tn  OR ‘UVEDOSE’:tn OR ‘VIGANTOL’:tn OR ‘VIGANTOLETTEN’:tn OR ‘VIT D OSTEO’:tn OR  ‘VITAGAMMA’:tn OR ‘VITAMID’:tn OR ‘VITAMIN D3’:tn OR ‘VITAMINA A COMPOSTA’:tn OR ‘VITAMINA  D3’:tn OR ‘XARENEL’:tn OR ‘ZIBENAK’:tn OR ‘ZYMAD’:tn OR ‘ZYMADUO’:tn OR ‘ZYMAFLUOR D’:tn OR  ‘ADDERA D3’:tn OR ‘ADEK’:tn OR ‘AQUADETRIM’:tn OR ‘BLACKMORES VITAMIN D3’:tn OR ‘CA -D’:tn  OR ‘CAL -D-OR’:tn OR ‘CALCITE 500 + D3 400’:tn OR ‘CALTRATE VITAMIN D’:tn OR ‘CARBOCAL D  400’:tn OR ‘CRAMPEX’:tn OR ‘D VI SOL INFANTS’:tn OR ‘D -FLUORETTEN’:tn OR ‘D3 -VICOTRAT’:tn OR  ‘DECAL’:tn OR ‘DEKRISTOL’:tn OR ‘DEVIT -3’:tn OR ‘EURO D’:tn OR ‘EURO -CAL D’:tn OR ‘GERIATRIC  PHARMATON’:tn OR ‘JAMP -VITAMIN D3’:tn OR ‘MENCALISVIT’:tn OR ‘OLEOVIT D3’:tn OR ‘OS -CAL 500  + D’:tn OR ‘OSTEODYN’:tn OR ‘OSTEOFOS’:tn OR ‘OSTEONUTRI’:tn OR ‘OSTEVIT D’:tn OR ‘OSTEVIT - D’:tn OR ‘OSTRAM -D3’:tn OR ‘OYSCO 500+D’:tn OR ‘OYSTER SHELL CALCIUM WITH VITAMIN D’:tn OR  ‘PIKOVIT’:tn OR ‘POSTURE D’:tn OR ‘RIVA -D’:tn OR ‘ULTIBOOST VITAMIN D’:tn OR ‘UVEDOSE’:tn OR  ‘VI-DE 3’:tn OR ‘VI -DE3’:tn OR ‘VIGANTOL’:tn OR ‘VIGANTOLETTEN’:tn OR ‘VITAMIN’:tn AND ('adverse  drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR  'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 158/368   'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   114.  Gliclazide   ‘GLICLAZIDE’ OR ‘GLIKLAZID’ OR ‘GLIKLAZID’ OR ‘GLICLAZIDĂ’ OR ‘GLICLAZID’ OR ‘GLICLAZIDA’ OR  ‘GLIKLAZYD’ OR ‘GLICLAZIDE’ OR ‘GLICLAZIDE’ OR ‘GLIKLAZĪDS’ OR ‘GLIKLAZIDAS’ OR  ‘GLICLAZIDUM’ OR ‘GLICLAZIDE’ OR ‘GLIKLAZID’ OR ‘GLIKLAZID’ OR ‘GLICLAZIDE’ OR ‘GLIKLASIID’  OR ‘GLICLAZIDA’ OR ‘GLICLAZID’ OR ‘GLICLAZID’ OR ‘GLIKLAZID’ OR ‘BILXONA’:tn OR  ‘CLAZISTADA’:tn OR ‘DACADIS MR’:tn OR ‘DIAB’:tn OR ‘DIABREZIDE’:tn OR ‘DIACLAZID’:tn OR  ‘DIACLIDE MR’:tn OR ‘DIACRONAL MR’:tn OR ‘DIAGEN’:tn OR ‘DIAGLYARAN’:tn OR ‘DIAGLYC’:tn OR  ‘DIAMICRON’:tn OR ‘DIAPREL’:tn OR ‘DIAZID’:tn OR ‘DIAZIDAN’:tn OR ‘DIGLICAL’:tn OR ‘DRAMION’:tn  OR ‘DYACLID’:tn OR ‘EDICIL MR’:tn OR ‘ESQUEL’:tn OR ‘GALTES’:tn OR ‘GLIBEMAT’:tn OR  ‘GLICACON’:tn OR ‘GLICARSTEN’:tn OR ‘GLICAZIDA ‘:tn OR ‘GLICAZIDE’:tn OR ‘GLICLABORE’:tn OR  ‘GLICLADA’:tn OR ‘GLICLADZIDA KRKA’:tn OR ‘GLICLAGAMMA’:tn OR ‘GLICLALANE’:tn OR  ‘GLICLAREZE’:tn OR ‘GLICLASAN’:tn OR ‘GLICLASTAD’:tn OR ‘GLICLATAB’:tn OR ‘GLICLATIM’:tn OR  ‘GLICLAZID -’:tn OR ‘GLICLAZIDA’:tn OR ‘GLICLAZIDA GP’:tn OR ‘GLICLAZIDE’:tn OR ‘GLICLAZIDE  ZYDUS’:tn OR ‘GLICLAZIDĂ ZENTIVA’:tn OR ‘GLIKA’:tn OR ‘GLIKLADA’:tn OR ‘GLIMIL’:tn OR  ‘GLIRIKE’:tn OR ‘GLIZOREM’:tn OR ‘GLUCTAM MR’:tn OR ‘GLYCLADA’:tn OR ‘GLYDIUM’:tn OR  ‘GULRIKE’:tn OR ‘INZADIN’:tn OR ‘ITAZ’:tn OR ‘LAAGLYDA MR’:tn OR ‘MEDOCLAZIDE’:tn OR ‘NAZDOL  MR’:tn OR ‘NORMODIAB’:tn OR ‘SYMAZIDE MR’:tn OR ‘UNI DIAMICRON’:tn OR ‘UNI GLICLAZIDE’:tn  OR ‘VAMJU’:tn OR ‘VITILE MR’:tn OR ‘ZICLASEG’:tn OR ‘ZICRON’:tn OR ‘ZODEDIAB’:tn OR  ‘ZODEDIAB’:tn OR ‘ZYCRON’:tn OR ‘GLICLAZIDE’:tn OR ‘AZUKON MR’:tn OR ‘BENELAXA’:tn OR  ‘BETANORM’:tn OR ‘CRAWNART’:tn OR ‘DIABETON’:tn OR ‘DIACRONAL MR’:tn OR ‘DIAGEN’:tn OR  ‘DIAGLICO’:tn OR ‘DIAMEXON’:tn OR ‘DIAMICRON’:tn OR ‘DIAPREL’:tn OR ‘DIAPRO’:tn OR ‘DIAZID’:tn  OR ‘GLAZIDE’:tn OR ‘GLICAZIDE’:tn OR ‘GLICLAZID -MEPHA’:tn OR ‘GLICLAZIDA’:tn OR  ‘GLICLAZIDE’:tn OR ‘GLIDIAB’:tn OR ‘GLIMICRON’:tn OR ‘GLIMIRAN’:tn OR ‘GLIORAL’:tn OR  ‘GLIZID’:tn OR ‘GLUBITOR’:tn OR ‘GLUCOMED’:tn OR ‘GLUCOZIDE’:tn OR ‘GLUTAMEAL’:tn OR  ‘GLYADE’:tn OR ‘GLYCRON’:tn OR ‘MEXAN’:tn OR ‘NIDEM’:tn OR ‘NOVO -GLICLAZIDE’:tn OR  ‘OZICLIDE’:tn OR ‘PREDIAN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 159/368   hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   115.  Lactulose   ‘LACTULOSE’ OR ‘DUPHALAC DRY’:tn OR ‘DUPHALAC EFFECT’:tn OR ‘DUPHALAC FRUIT’:tn OR  ‘DUPHALAC FRUKT’:tn OR ‘DUPHALAC MED FRUKTSMAK’:tn OR ‘DUPHALAC SE ŠVESTKOVOU  PŘÍCHUTÍ’:tn OR ‘EPALFEN EPS’:tn OR ‘LACTECON Z OKUSOM SLIVE’:tn OR ‘LACTULOSA  BIOMEDICA’:tn OR ‘LACTULOSA FRESENIUS’:tn OR ‘LACTULOSA LAINCO’:tn OR ‘LACTULOSA LEVEL’:tn  OR ‘LACTULOSA’:tn OR ‘LACTULOSE’:tn OR ‘LACTULOSE’:tn OR ‘LACTULOSUM’:tn OR ‘LAEVOLAC  AMEIXA’:tn OR ‘LAEVOLAC EPS’:tn OR ‘LAEVOLAC FRUCHTAROMA’:tn OR ‘LAEVOLAC  PFLAUMENAROMA’:tn OR ‘LAEVOLAC PLUM’:tn OR ‘LAEVOLAC PLUM FLAVOUR’:tn OR ‘LAEVOLAC - LACTULOSE’:tn OR ‘LAKTULOS APELSIN MEDA’:tn OR ‘LAKTULOS MEDA’:tn OR ‘LAKTULOSE’:tn OR  ‘LATTULAC EPS’:tn OR ‘LATTULOSIO’:tn OR ‘LAXEERDRANK LACTULOSE’:tn OR ‘NORMASE EPS’:tn OR  ‘DUPHALAC DRY’:tn OR ‘LACTULOSE ’:tn OR ‘LACTULOSE APO’:tn OR ‘LACTULOSE CF’:tn OR  ‘LACTULOSE KOWA’:tn OR ‘LACTULOSE RPG’:tn OR ‘LACTULOSE SOLUTION’:tn OR ‘OSMOLAC EPS’:tn  OR ‘PIARLE DS’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR  'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   116.  Pramipexole   ‘PRAMIPEXOLE’ OR ‘PRAMIPEXOL’ OR ‘PRAMIPEKSOL’ OR ‘PRAMIPEKSOLS’ OR ‘PRAMIPEKSOLIS’ OR  ‘PRAMIPEXOLUM’ OR ‘PRAMIPEKSOL’ OR ‘PRAMIPEXOLE’ OR ‘PRAMIPEKSOOL’ OR ‘PRAMIPEXOL’ OR  ‘PRAMIPEXOLUM’ OR ‘ASTEPEN’:tn OR ‘CALMOLAN’:tn OR ‘CALMOLAN’:tn OR ‘DERINIK’:tn OR  ‘DOPAXOL’:tn OR ‘ERIMEXOL’:tn OR ‘EZAPREV’:tn OR ‘FRODIX’:tn OR ‘GLEPARK’:tn OR ‘HITOFF’:tn OR  ‘MARIPRAX’:tn OR ‘MEDOPEXOL’:tn OR ‘MIGLASEN’:tn OR ‘MIPEXOL’:tn OR ‘MIRALETON’:tn OR  ‘MIRAMEL’:tn OR ‘MIRAPARKIN’:tn OR ‘MIRAPEXIN’:tn OR ‘MIRAPEZOL’:tn OR ‘MIVIREN’:tn OR  ‘MOVIAL’:tn OR ‘NERVIUS’:tn OR ‘OPRYMEA’:tn OR ‘PARXAMIL’:tn OR ‘PERXELE’:tn OR ‘PEXIMYR’:tn  OR ‘PRAMIFER’:tn OR ‘PRAMIGEN’:tn OR ‘PRAMIP’:tn OR ‘PRAMIPEXGAMMA’:tn OR ‘PRAMIPEXO  DURA’:tn OR ‘PRAMIPEXOL’:tn OR ‘PRAMIPEXOL -CT’:tn OR ‘PRAMIPEXOL -Q’:tn OR ‘PRAMIPEXOL -’:tn  OR ‘PRAMIPEXOLE’:tn OR ‘PRAMIPEXOLO’:tn OR ‘PRAMIPREXOLE ‘:tn OR ‘PRAMIRIN’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 160/368   ‘PRAMISOL’:tn OR ‘PRAMITHON’:tn OR ‘PRAMIXOL’:tn OR ‘PRAPEXIN’:tn OR ‘PRAXITAB’:tn OR  ‘PRIMIZOL’:tn OR ‘SENEFOR’:tn OR ‘SIFROL’:tn OR ‘X -TREMBLE’:tn OR ‘PRAMIPEXOLE’:tn OR ‘BI ·  SIFROL’:tn OR ‘MIRAPEX’:tn OR ‘MIRAPEX -LA’:tn OR ‘MIRAPEXIN’:tn OR ‘PRAMIPEXOL’:tn OR  ‘PRAMIPEXOLE’:tn OR ‘PRAMIPEZAN’:tn OR ‘SIFROL’:tn OR ‘PRAMIPEXOLE’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   117.  Alprazolam   ‘ALPRAZOLAM’ OR ‘ALP RAZOLAMA’ OR ‘ALPRAZOLAMUM’ OR ‘ALPRAZOLAMU’ OR ‘ALPRAZOLAMS’ OR  ‘ALPRAZOLĀMA’ OR ‘ALPRAZOLAMO’ OR ‘ALPRAZOLAMAS’ OR ‘ALPRAZOLAMUM’ OR ‘ ALPRAZOLAM’ OR  ‘ALPRAZÓLAM’ OR ‘ALPRAZOLAMOT’ OR ‘ALPRAZOLAM’ OR ‘ALPRAZOLAM’ OR ‘ALPRAZOLAM’ OR  ‘ALPRATSOLAAMIA’ OR ‘ALPRATSOLAAMI’ OR ‘ALPRASOLAAMI’ OR ‘ALPRA SOLAAM’ OR   ‘ALPRAZOLAMUM’ OR ‘AFOBAM’:tn OR ‘AISI’:tn OR ‘ALDEPRELAM’:tn OR ‘ALPRAGEN’:tn OR  ‘ALPRASEDON’:tn OR ‘ALPRASTAD’:tn OR ‘ALPRATOP 0.25 MG’:tn OR ‘ALPRATOP 0.5 MG’:tn OR  ‘ALPRATOP 1 MG’:tn OR ‘ALPRAZ’:tn OR ‘ALPRAZIG’:tn OR ‘ALPRAZOLAM’:tn OR ‘ALPRAZOLAM -’:tn OR  ‘ALPRAZOLAM -’:tn OR ‘ALPROL’:tn OR ‘ALPROX’:tn OR ‘CASSADAN’:tn OR ‘FRONTAL’:tn OR  ‘FRONTIN’:tn OR ‘GERAX’:tn OR ‘HELEX’:tn OR ‘MISAR’:tn OR ‘NALION’:tn OR ‘NEUROL’:tn OR  ‘PAZOLAM’:tn OR ‘PRAZOLEX’:tn OR ‘RENAX’:tn OR ‘SATURNIL’:tn OR ‘TAFIL’:tn OR ‘TAFIL’:tn OR  ‘TRANKIMAZIN’:tn OR ‘UNILAN’:tn OR ‘VALEANS’:tn OR ‘XANAX’:tn OR ‘XANOR’:tn OR ‘ZOLARAM’:tn  OR ‘ZOMIREN’:tn OR ‘AFOBAM’:tn OR ‘ALPLAX’:tn OR ‘ALPRALINE’:tn OR ‘ALPRANAX’:tn OR  ‘ALPRAX’:tn OR ‘ALPRAZ’:tn OR ‘ALPRAZOLAM’:tn OR ‘ALPROX’:tn OR ‘ALTROX’:tn OR ‘ALZAM’:tn OR  ‘ALPRAZ’:tn OR ‘APRAZ’:tn OR ‘AZOLITAN’:tn OR ‘AZOR (ALPRAZOLAM)’:tn OR ‘CALMAX’:tn OR  ‘CALMDOWN’:tn OR ‘CONSTAN’:tn OR ‘CONSTANTE’:tn OR ‘FRONTAL’:tn OR ‘FRONTIN’:tn OR  ‘HELEX’:tn OR ‘KALMA’:tn OR ‘MEDEPOLIN’:tn OR ‘ -ALPRAZOLAM’:tn OR ‘NEUPAX’:tn OR ‘NEUROL’:tn  OR ‘NIRAVAM’:tn OR ‘RENAX’:tn OR ‘SOLANAX’:tn OR ‘TAFIL’:tn OR ‘TAFIL AP’:tn OR ‘TENSIUM’:tn OR  ‘-ALPRAZOLAM’:tn OR ‘TRANKIMAZIN’:tn OR ‘TRANQUINAL’:tn OR ‘XANAGIS’:tn OR ‘XANAX’:tn OR  ‘XANOR’:tn OR ‘ZOPAX’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 161/368   OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   118.  Diltiazem   ‘DILTIAZEM’ OR ‘ DILTIAZEMUM’ OR ‘ALDIZEM’:tn OR ‘ALTIAZEM’:tn OR ‘ANGIODROX’:tn OR ‘ANGITIL  SR’:tn OR ‘ANGITIL XL’:tn OR ‘ANGIZEM’:tn OR ‘ANOTRIT’:tn OR ‘BI -CARZEM’:tn OR ‘BLOCALCIN’:tn  OR ‘CALCICARD’:tn OR ‘CARDIL’:tn OR ‘CARDIZEM’:tn OR ‘CARRELDON’:tn OR ‘CLORHIDRAT DE  DILTIAZEM ADOH’:tn OR ‘CRONODINE’:tn OR ‘DADA’:tn OR ‘DAZIL’:tn OR ‘DENAZOX’:tn OR  ‘DIACOR’:tn OR ‘DIACORDIN’:tn OR ‘DIAZEM’:tn OR ‘DILADEL’:tn OR ‘DILFAR’:tn OR ‘DILMIN’:tn OR  ‘DILRENE’:tn OR ‘DILSAL’:tn OR ‘DILTAHEXAL’:tn OR ‘DILTAM’:tn OR ‘DILTI -CT’:tn OR  ‘DILTIAGAMMA’:tn OR ‘DILTIASTAD’:tn OR ‘DILTIAZEM’:tn OR ‘DILTIAZEM -’:tn OR ‘DILTIAZEM’:tn OR  ‘DILTIAZEMHYDROCHLORIDE’:tn OR ‘DILTIEM’:tn OR ‘DILTIEM AP’:tn OR ‘DILTIWAS’:tn OR  ‘DILZEM’:tn OR ‘DILZENE’:tn OR ‘DINISOR’:tn OR ‘DIPEN’:tn OR ‘ELVESIL’:tn OR ‘ETIZEM’:tn OR  ‘HERBESSER’:tn OR ‘HERBESSER SR’:tn OR ‘HOVAZEM’:tn OR ‘KENZEM’:tn OR ‘LACEROL’:tn OR  ‘LOFAMIL XL’:tn OR ‘MASDIL’:tn OR ‘MEZATIL SR’:tn OR ‘NUVAZEM’:tn OR ‘OXYCARDIL’:tn OR  ‘OXYCARDIL 60’:tn OR ‘PROGOR’:tn OR ‘RETALZEM’:tn OR ‘SLOZEM’:tn OR ‘TILDIEM’:tn OR  ‘TILKER’:tn OR ‘TRUMSAL’:tn OR ‘UNI -MASDIL’:tn OR ‘ZATIM’:tn OR ‘ACALIX’:tn OR ‘ADIZEM’:tn OR  ‘ALDIZEM’:tn OR ‘ALTIAZEM’:tn OR ‘ANGIOLONG’:tn OR ‘ANGIOTROFIN’:tn OR ‘ANGIOZEM’:tn OR  ‘ANGIPRESS’:tn OR ‘ANGIZEM’:tn OR ‘DILTIAZ’:tn OR ‘BALCOR’:tn OR ‘BI -TILDIEM’:tn OR  ‘CALCICARD’:tn OR ‘CARDIL’:tn OR ‘CARDIUM’:tn OR ‘CARDIZEM’:tn OR ‘CARTIA XT’:tn OR ‘CO  DILTIAZEM CD’:tn OR ‘CORAMIL’:tn OR ‘CORAS’:tn OR ‘CORAZEM’:tn OR ‘CORDIL’:tn OR  ‘COROHERSER’:tn OR ‘COROHERSER -R’:tn OR ‘DELTAZEN’:tn OR ‘DIACORDIN’:tn OR ‘DILACOR’:tn OR  ‘DILATAM’:tn OR ‘DILCARDIA’:tn OR ‘DILT -CD’:tn OR ‘DILT -XR’:tn OR ‘DILTAHEXAL’:tn OR ‘DILTAM’:tn  OR ‘DILTELAN’:tn OR ‘DILTIA XT’:tn OR ‘DILTIAZ’:tn OR ‘DILTIAZEM’:tn OR ‘DILTIAZEM -CD’:tn OR  ‘DILTIAZEM -MEPHA’:tn OR ‘DILTIUC’:tn OR ‘DILTIZEM’:tn OR ‘DILTZAC’:tn OR ‘DILZEM’:tn OR  ‘DILZENE’:tn OR ‘DITIZEM’:tn OR ‘FARMABES’:tn OR ‘HERBESSER’:tn OR ‘HERBESSER R’:tn OR  ‘HERBESSER SR’:tn OR ‘HIROSUTAS -R’:tn OR ‘LACEROL’:tn OR ‘LUTIANON R’:tn OR ‘MATZIM LA’:tn  OR ‘MIOCARDIE’:tn OR ‘MONO TILDIEM’:tn OR ‘MYONIL’:tn OR ‘PROGOR’:tn OR ‘DILTIAZEM T’:tn OR  ‘SERESNATT’:tn OR ‘TAZTIA XT’:tn OR ‘ -DILTIAZEM’:tn OR ‘TIAZAC’:tn OR ‘TIAZAC XC’:tn OR  ‘TILAZEM’:tn OR ‘TILDIEM’:tn OR ‘VASOCARDOL’:tn OR ‘YOUTIAZEM’:tn OR ‘ZILDEN’:tn  AND ('adverse  drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR  'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 162/368   'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   119.  Alfuzosin   ‘ALFUZOSIN’ OR ‘ALFUZOSINA’ OR ‘ALFUZOSINUM’ OR ‘ALFUZOSINE’ OR ‘ALFUZOSINA’ OR  ‘ALCININ’:tn OR ‘ALFABAX’:tn OR ‘ALFETIM’:tn OR ‘ALFU’:tn OR ‘ALFUDEX’:tn OR ‘ALFUGEN’:tn OR  ‘ALFULEK’:tn OR ‘ALFUNAR’:tn OR ‘ALFURAL’:tn OR ‘ALFURAN MR’:tn OR ‘ALFURO’:tn OR ‘ALFUZIN’:tn  OR ‘ALFUZOSIN’:tn OR ‘ALFUZOSIN -’:tn OR ‘ALFUZOSINA’:tn OR ‘ALFUZOSINE’:tn OR  ‘ALFUZOSINEHYDROCHLORIDE’:tn OR ‘ALFUZOSINEHYDROCHLORIDE’:tn OR  ‘ALFUZOSINHYDROKLORID’:tn OR ‘ALFUZOSTAD’:tn OR ‘ALFUZOZIN’:tn OR ‘ALUGEN’:tn OR  ‘ALZMERAN XL’:tn OR ‘AZOSIN’:tn OR ‘BENESTAN’:tn OR ‘BESAVAR’:tn OR ‘DALFAZ’:tn OR  ‘DANAFUSIN’:tn OR ‘FARALZIN’:tn OR ‘FUZATAL XL’:tn OR ‘LAFUNOMYL’:tn OR ‘MITTOVAL’:tn OR  ‘OFUXAL’:tn OR ‘PROSTAZOSIN’:tn OR ‘RILIF’:tn OR ‘TAURAZIL SR’:tn OR ‘TAURAZIL XL’:tn OR ‘X’:tn  OR ‘UNIBENESTAN’:tn OR ‘URION’:tn OR ‘URION UNO’:tn OR ‘UROBENE’:tn OR ‘UROXATRAL’:tn OR  ‘UROZOSIN’:tn OR ‘VASRAN XL’:tn OR ‘XATGER’:tn OR ‘XATRAL’:tn OR ‘ZOCHEK’:tn OR ‘ZOPROST’:tn  OR ‘ZORATRAL XR’:tn OR ‘ALFU -KAL XL’:tn OR ‘ALFURAL’:tn OR ‘ALFUSIN’:tn OR ‘ALFUZOSINE’:tn OR  ‘ALFUZOSIN’:tn OR ‘UROXATRAL’:tn OR ‘XATRAL’:tn OR ‘XATRÁL’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp  OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   120.  Fluticasone Propionate   ‘FLUTICASONE PROPIONATE’ OR ‘PROPIONATE DE FLUTICASONE’ OR ‘S -FLUOROMETHYL 6Α,9Α - DIFLUORO -11Β,17Α -DIHYDROXY -16Α-METHYL -3-OXOANDROSTA -1,4-DIENE -17Β-CARBOTHIOATE 17 - PROPIONATE’ OR ‘PROPIONATO DE FLUTICASONA’ OR ‘FLUTYKAZONU PROPIONIAN’ OR  ‘FLUTICASONPROPIONAAT’ OR ‘FLUTIKAZONA PROPIONĀTS’ OR ‘FLUTICASONI PROPIONAS’ OR  ‘FLUTIKAZONPROPIONAT’ OR ‘PROPIONATE DE FLUTICASONE’ OR ‘PROPIONATO DE FLUTICASONA’ OR  ‘AIRFLUSAL FORSPIRO’ :tn OR ‘AIRFLUSAN  FORSPIRO’:tn OR ‘ALIFLUS’:tn OR ‘ANASMA’:tn OR  ‘ASARIS’:tn OR ‘ASMAFLEX’:tn OR ‘ASMATIL’:tn OR ‘ASMO -LAVI’:tn OR ‘ATMADISC’:tn OR  ‘AZECORT’:tn OR ‘AZECORT NOSOVÁ’:tn OR ‘BILENI’:tn OR ‘BRISAIR’:tn OR ‘BRISAIR ACCUHALER’:tn  OR ‘BRISOMAX DISKUS’:tn OR ‘BRISOMAX INALADOR’:tn OR ‘BRISOVENT DISKUS’:tn OR ‘BRISOVENT     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 163/368   INALADOR’:tn OR ‘CORTIFIL’:tn OR ‘CORTOFLAM’:tn OR ‘CUTIVAT’:tn OR ‘CUTIVATE’:tn OR  ‘DERMOCORT’:tn OR ‘DIMENIO’:tn OR ‘DIMENIUM’:tn OR ‘DUOHAL’:tn OR ‘DYGARO’:tn OR  ‘DYMISTA’:tn OR ‘DYMISTA NOSOVÁ’:tn OR ‘DYMISTALAN’:tn OR ‘DYMISTALIN’:tn OR ‘DYMISTIN’:tn  OR ‘DYVISTALIN’:tn OR ‘DYVISTANIL’:tn OR ‘EUSTIDIL’:tn OR ‘FANIPOS’:tn OR ‘FIXORINOX’:tn OR  ‘FLAMERIO’:tn OR ‘FLIXOCORT’:tn OR ‘FLIXODERM’:tn OR ‘FLIXODIL’:tn OR ‘FLIXONASE’:tn OR  ‘FLIXOTAIDE’:tn OR ‘FLIXOTIDE’:tn OR ‘FLIXOTIDE -NEBULES’:tn OR ‘FLIXOVATE’:tn OR ‘FLONASE’:tn  OR ‘FLOSAL’:tn OR ‘FLUCORTIS’:tn OR ‘FLUINOL’:tn OR ‘FLUMETOR’:tn OR ‘FLUNASE’:tn OR  ‘FLUNUTRA’:tn OR ‘FLUNUTRAC’:tn OR ‘FLUSALAIR’:tn OR ‘FLUSALIO’:tn OR ‘FLUSAMER’:tn OR  ‘FLUSATEROL’:tn OR ‘FLUSONAL’:tn OR ‘FLUSONAL ACCUHALER’:tn OR ‘FLUSPIRAL’:tn OR  ‘FLUTAIDE’:tn OR ‘FLUTARZOLE’:tn OR ‘FLUTICA - ‘:tn OR ‘FLUTICA ‘:tn OR ‘FLUTICAPEN’:tn OR  ‘FLUTICASON’:tn OR ‘FLUTICASON CIPLA’:tn OR ‘FLUTICASONA CIPLA’:tn OR ‘FLUTICASONA  NASOFAN’:tn OR ‘FLUTICASONA ‘:tn OR ‘FLUTICASONPROPIONAT’:tn OR ‘FLUTICASONPROPIONAT ‘:tn  OR ‘FLUTICREM’:tn OR ‘FLUTIDE’:tn OR ‘FLUTIDE AEROSOL’:tn OR ‘FLUTIDE DISKUS’:tn OR ‘FLUTIDE  EVOHALER’:tn OR ‘FLUTIDE FERTIGINHALAT’:tn OR ‘FLUTIDE NASAL’:tn OR ‘FLUTIDE NASETTEN’:tn  OR ‘FLUTIKASON ‘:tn OR ‘FLUTINASAL’:tn OR ‘FLUTIRESP’:tn OR ‘FLUTIRIN’:tn OR ‘FLUTIVATE’:tn OR  ‘FLUTIXON’:tn OR ‘FULLHALE’:tn OR ‘INALACOR’:tn OR ‘INALADUO’:tn OR ‘INALADUO ACCUHALER’:tn  OR ‘MAIZAR DISKUS’:tn OR ‘NASOFAN’:tn OR ‘PIRINASE HAYFEVER’:tn OR ‘PLUSVENT’:tn OR  ‘PLUSVENT ACCUHALER’:tn OR ‘RELANIO’:tn OR ‘REVIFLUT AXAHALER’:tn OR ‘RINOCO’:tn OR  ‘RINOSONE’:tn OR ‘ROLENIUM’:tn OR ‘SALENGA’:tn OR ‘SALMESON’:tn OR ‘SALMETEROL’:tn OR  ‘SALMEX’:tn OR ‘SAMTORAL DISKUS FORTE’:tn OR ‘SAMTORAL DISKUS LEVIS’:tn OR ‘SAMTORAL  DISKUS STANDARD’:tn OR ‘SAMTORAL FORTE’:tn OR ‘SAMTORAL LEVIS’:tn OR ‘SAMTORAL  STANDARD’:tn OR ‘SERETAIDE’:tn OR ‘SERETIDE’:tn OR ‘SERROFLO’:tn OR ‘SIRDUPLA’:tn OR ‘SLFP  INHALER’:tn OR ‘SYNAZE’:tn OR ‘THOREUS DISKUS’:tn OR ‘THOREUS EVOHALER’:tn OR ‘TRIALONA’:tn  OR ‘TRIALONA ACCUHALER’:tn OR ‘UBIZOL’:tn OR ‘VERASPIR DISKUS’:tn OR ‘ADOAIR’:tn OR  ‘ADVAIR’:tn OR ‘ALIFLUS’:tn OR ‘ATMADISC’:tn OR ‘CUTIVATE’:tn OR ‘DYMISTA’:tn OR ‘FLIXONASE’:tn  OR ‘FLIXOTIDE’:tn OR ‘FLOMIST’:tn OR ‘FLONASE’:tn OR ‘FLONASE -AEM-SUS’:tn OR ‘FLOVENT’:tn OR  ‘FLUNASE’:tn OR ‘FLUTICASONE APO’:tn OR ‘FLUTIDE’:tn OR ‘FLUTIDE DISKUS’:tn OR ‘FLUTIDE  NASAL’:tn OR ‘FLUTIDE ROTADISK’:tn OR ‘FLUTIDE ROTADISK’:tn OR ‘FLUTINASE POLYNEX’:tn OR  ‘FLUTIVATE’:tn OR ‘FOXAIR’:tn OR ‘NASOFAN AQUEOUS’:tn OR ‘PLURAIR’:tn OR ‘RATIO - FLUTICASONE’:tn OR ‘SALMETEROL/FLUTICASONPROPIONAAT’:tn OR ‘SERETAIDE’:tn OR  ‘SERETIDE’:tn OR ‘SERROFLO’:tn OR ‘SKYRON’:tn OR ‘VIANI’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 164/368   121.  Formoterol   ‘FORMOTEROL’ OR ‘EFORMOTEROL’ OR ‘FO RMOTEROLUM’ OR ‘FORMOTÉROL’ OR ‘ABRIFF’:tn OR  ‘AFFERA’:tn OR ‘ALABASTER’:tn OR ‘ANDIPULM’:tn OR ‘ASMELOR NOVOLIZER’:tn OR ‘ATIFOR’:tn OR  ‘ATIMOS’:tn OR ‘ATIMOS MODULITE’:tn OR ‘AТИМОС’:tn OR ‘BRIMICA GENUAIR’:tn OR  ‘BRONCHOVENT’:tn OR ‘BRONCORAL AEROLIZER’:tn OR ‘BRONCORAL NEO’:tn OR ‘BRONCOTERIL’:tn  OR ‘CHEMOTEROL’:tn OR ‘COMBAIR’:tn OR ‘DELNIL’:tn OR ‘DUAKLIR GENUAIR’:tn OR ‘EDUFIL’:tn OR  ‘EOLUS’:tn OR ‘EVERVENT’:tn OR ‘FLUTIFORM’:tn OR ‘FLUTIFORMO’:tn OR ‘FOMEDA EASYHALER’:tn  OR ‘FORADIL’:tn OR ‘FORAIR’:tn OR ‘FORAMED’:tn OR ‘FORASTMIN’:tn OR ‘FORMAGAL’:tn OR  ‘FORMANO’:tn OR ‘FORMATRIS’:tn OR ‘FORMAXA’:tn OR ‘FORMO’:tn OR ‘FORMO’:tn OR ‘FORMOAIR’:tn  OR ‘FORMODUAL’:tn OR ‘FORMOLICH’:tn OR ‘FORMOPEN’:tn OR ‘FORMORESP’:tn OR ‘FORMOSTAD’:tn  OR ‘FORMOTEROL’:tn OR ‘FORMOTEROLO’:tn OR ‘FORMOTEROLO NOVOLIZER VIATRIS’:tn OR  ‘FORMOTIFI’:tn OR ‘FORMOTIL’:tn OR ‘FORMOTOP NOVOLIZER’:tn OR ‘FORMOVENT’:tn OR  ‘FOROTAN’:tn OR ‘FORTASINT’:tn OR ‘FORTULIN’:tn OR ‘FOSTAIR’:tn OR ‘FOSTER’:tn OR ‘FOSTEX’:tn  OR ‘FΟRCAP’:tn OR ‘IFFERA’:tn OR ‘IFFEZA’:tn OR ‘IMOTEC’:tn OR ‘INHAFORT’:tn OR ‘INNOVAIR’:tn  OR ‘INUVAIR’:tn OR ‘INUVER’:tn OR ‘KANTOS’:tn OR ‘KUROVENT’:tn OR ‘LEVOVENT’:tn OR  ‘LICAFORMOT’:tn OR ‘LIFEROL’:tn OR ‘NEBLIK ‘:tn OR ‘NOVOLIZER FORMOTEROL’:tn OR ‘OXODIL  PPH’:tn OR ‘PNEUMERA’:tn OR ‘REVIFORM AXAHALER’:tn OR ‘ZAFIRON’:tn OR ‘ACLIDINIUM  BROMIDE/FORMOTEROL FUMARATE’:tn OR ‘ASMATEC’:tn OR ‘ATIMOS’:tn OR ‘COMBAIR’:tn OR  ‘FLUIR’:tn OR ‘FLUTIFORM’:tn OR ‘FORADIL’:tn OR ‘FORMOTOP’:tn OR ‘FOSTAIR’:tn OR ‘FOSTER’:tn OR  ‘FOSTEX’:tn OR ‘INNOVAIR’:tn OR ‘NEBLIK’:tn OR ‘OXEZE’:tn OR ‘OXIS’:tn OR ‘PERFOROMIST’:tn OR  ‘ZAFIRON’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   122.  Levocitirizine   ‘LEVOCETIRIZINE’ OR ‘LEVOCETIRIZINUM’ OR ‘LEVOCETIRIZIN’ OR ‘LÉVOCÉTIRIZINE’ OR  ‘LEVOCETIRIZINA’ OR ‘AHIST’:tn OR ‘ALERGIMED’:tn OR ‘ANALERGIN NEO’:tn OR ‘LEVOCETIRIZINE’:tn  OR ‘ARALEVO’:tn OR ‘BEZALERIA’:tn OR ‘CETILEVO’:tn OR ‘CETIRMAR’:tn OR ‘CETIZAL’:tn OR  ‘CEZERA’:tn OR ‘CONTRAHIST’:tn OR ‘HISTISYNT’:tn OR ‘L -CETIRINAX’:tn OR ‘L -HISTASIN’:tn OR  ‘LECETAX’:tn OR ‘LECISYN’:tn OR ‘LECIVRIENS’:tn OR ‘LECOCETIRIZINA’:tn OR ‘LERTAZIN’:tn OR  ‘LEVAZYR’:tn OR ‘LEVOCEP’:tn OR ‘LEVOCET’:tn OR ‘LEVOCETIRA’:tn OR ‘LEVOCETIRICINA COMBIX’:tn  OR ‘LEVOCETIRINE’:tn OR ‘LEVOCETIRIZIN’:tn OR ‘LEVOCETIRIZINA’:tn OR  ‘LEVOCETIRIZINDIHYDROCHLORID’:tn OR ‘LEVOCETIRIZINDIHYDROCHLORID ‘:tn OR  ‘LEVOCETIRIZINE’:tn OR ‘LEVOCETIRIZINI DIHYDROCHLORIDUM TABLETKI POWIEKANE’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 165/368   ‘LEVOCETIRIZINĂ’:tn OR ‘LEVOCETRIZINA’:tn OR ‘LEVOMIL’:tn OR ‘LEVRIN’:tn OR ‘LEVRIX’:tn OR  ‘LIRRA’:tn OR ‘LIRRAGEM’:tn OR ‘MEDTAX’:tn OR ‘MUNTEL’:tn OR ‘NEOTEMELIN’:tn OR ‘NOCEDAN’:tn  OR ‘NOVOCETRIN’:tn OR ‘PIXAL’:tn OR ‘POLLEZIN’:tn OR ‘PYLOTRIX’:tn OR ‘RINOZAL’:tn OR  ‘SEFALLER’:tn OR ‘SILARDEX’:tn OR ‘SOPRAS’:tn OR ‘VOLNOSTIN’:tn OR ‘VOTREZIN’:tn OR ‘XAZAL’:tn  OR ‘XOZAL’:tn OR ‘XUSAL AKUT’:tn OR ‘XUSAL SAFT’:tn OR ‘XUSAL TROPFEN’:tn OR ‘XYZAL’:tn OR  ‘XYZALL’:tn OR ‘ZENARO’:tn OR ‘ZILOLA’:tn OR ‘ZOBRAL’:tn OR ‘ZYX’:tn OR ‘CREBROS’:tn OR  ‘LEVOCET’:tn OR ‘LEVOCETIRIZINE’:tn OR ‘MISEDA’:tn OR ‘XOZAL’:tn OR ‘XUZAL’:tn OR ‘XYZAL’:tn OR  ‘XYZALL’:tn OR ‘ZINA’:tn OR ‘ZYXEM’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   123.  Betahistine   ‘BETAHISTINE’ OR ‘BETAHISTINUM’ OR ‘BÉTAHISTINE’ OR ‘BETAHISTINA’ OR ‘ACUVER’:tn OR  ‘AEQUAMEN’:tn OR ‘AEQUAMEN FORTE’:tn OR ‘ALFINOR’:tn OR ‘ANTIVOM’:tn OR ‘AVERTIN’:tn OR  ‘BEHISTEP’:tn OR ‘BESTIN’:tn OR ‘BETA -HISTINA’:tn OR ‘BETA -SYNTO’:tn OR ‘BETABARE’:tn OR  ‘BETABERE’:tn OR ‘BETAGEN’:tn OR ‘BETAHECON’:tn OR ‘BETAHISTIN -’:tn OR ‘BETAHISTINA’:tn OR  ‘BETAHISTINE’:tn OR ‘BETAHISTINE.2HCL DISPHAR’:tn OR ‘BETAHISTINĂ’:tn OR ‘BETAHSITINE’:tn OR  ‘BETAISTINA’:tn OR ‘BETAKILE’:tn OR ‘BETAKULE’:tn OR ‘BETALANE’:tn OR ‘BETALENE’:tn OR  ‘BETALESE’:tn OR ‘BETALUNE’:tn OR ‘BETALUSE’:tn OR ‘BETANIL FORTE’:tn OR ‘BETAREVIN’:tn OR  ‘BETASERC’:tn OR ‘BETASERC / БЕТАСЕРК’:tn OR ‘BETASERC’:tn OR ‘BETASERC ODIS’:tn OR  ‘BETASERC ODT’:tn OR ‘BETAVERT’:tn OR ‘BETAVERT N’:tn OR ‘BETAZELA’:tn OR ‘BETIGO’:tn OR  ‘BÉTASERC’:tn OR ‘DIVETRIN’:tn OR ‘ELVEN’:tn OR ‘EMPERIN’:tn OR ‘EXTOVYL’:tn OR ‘FIDIUM’:tn OR  ‘FORTAMID’:tn OR ‘HISTIGEN’:tn OR ‘JARAPP’:tn OR ‘JARES’:tn OR ‘LAVISTINA’:tn OR ‘LECTIL’:tn OR  ‘MARAC’:tn OR ‘MARAK’:tn OR ‘MARBETA’:tn OR ‘MENISERC’:tn OR ‘MICROSER’:tn OR ‘NEATIN’:tn OR  ‘POLVERTIC’:tn OR ‘RIVA’:tn OR ‘SERC’:tn OR ‘SINCROVER’:tn OR ‘BEHIST’:tn OR ‘URUTAL’:tn OR  ‘VASOMOTAL’:tn OR ‘VERHIST’:tn OR ‘VERTIBETIS’:tn OR ‘VERTIGAL’:tn OR ‘VERTIGON’:tn OR  ‘VERTIMED’:tn OR ‘VERTIMEN’:tn OR ‘VERTISAN’:tn OR ‘VERTISERC’:tn OR ‘VERTIX’:tn OR  ‘VERTIZAN’:tn OR ‘VESTIBO’:tn OR ‘AEQUAMEN’:tn OR ‘BETAHISTIN’:tn OR ‘BETAHISTINE’:tn OR  ‘BETASERC’:tn OR ‘BY -VERTIN’:tn OR ‘DEANOSART’:tn OR ‘LABIRIN’:tn OR ‘MENIACE’:tn OR  ‘MENIETOL’:tn OR ‘MENITAZINE’:tn OR ‘MERISLON’:tn OR ‘METAHISLON’:tn OR ‘MICROSER’:tn OR  ‘NOVO -BETAHISTINE’:tn OR ‘SERC’:tn OR ‘SUZUTOLON’:tn OR ‘URUTAL’:tn OR ‘VASOMOTAL’:tn OR  ‘VASOSERC’:tn OR ‘VERGO’:tn OR ‘VERTIGON’:tn OR ‘VERTIX’:tn OR ‘VESTIBO’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 166/368   abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   124.  Dextromethorphan   ‘DEXTROMETHORPHAN’ OR ‘DEXTROMETHORFAN’ OR ‘DEXTROMETHORPHANUM’ OR  ‘DESTROMETORFANO’ OR ‘DEXTROMÉTHORPHANE’ OR ‘DEXTROMETORFANO’ OR ‘ACODIN’:tn OR  ‘ACTIFED’:tn OR ‘ADULT DRY COUGH LINCTUS’:tn OR ‘ADULTES TOUX SECHE MIEL’:tn OR  ‘ARICODILTOSSE’:tn OR ‘ATUXANE’:tn OR ‘AUROTOS’:tn OR ‘BALSOCLASE DEXTROMETHORPHAN’:tn  OR ‘BECHILAR’:tn OR ‘BENYLIN CHILDRENS COUGHS AND COLDS’:tn OR ‘BENYLIN DRY COUGHS’:tn  OR ‘BENYLIN DUAL ACTION DRY’:tn OR ‘BENYLIN NON DROWSY DRY COUGHS’:tn OR ‘BICASAN’:tn OR  ‘BIOCADEXTRO ENFANTS SANS SUCRE’:tn OR ‘BISOLTUSSIN’:tn OR ‘BISOLVON ANTITUSIVO’:tn OR  ‘BISOLVON TOSSE SEDATIVO’:tn OR ‘BRONCHENOLO TOSSE’:tn OR ‘BRONCHOSEDAL’:tn OR ‘BRONCO  MEDICAL’:tn OR ‘CALMARUM’:tn OR ‘CINFATOS’:tn OR ‘CLARIX TOUX SECHE’:tn OR ‘COULDETOS’:tn  OR ‘COVONIA NIGHT TIME FORMULA’:tn OR ‘COVONIA ORIGINAL BRONCHIAL BALSAM SYRUP’:tn OR  ‘DEXACAPS’:tn OR ‘DEXAPICO’:tn OR ‘DEXAPINI’:tn OR ‘DEXOFAN’:tn OR ‘DEXOMET’:tn OR  ‘DEXTROCALYPTUS’:tn OR ‘DEXTROCAP’:tn OR ‘DEXTROCIDINE ADULTES’:tn OR ‘DEXTROFORME’:tn  OR ‘DEXTROMETHOFORM’:tn OR ‘DEXTROMETHORFANHYDROBROMIDEHYDRAAT SAMENWERKENDE  APOTHEKERS’:tn OR ‘DEXTROMETORFANOTUSSILENE’:tn OR ‘DRILL TOSSE SECA 1 MG/1ML’:tn OR  ‘DRILL TOUX SECHE SANS SUCRE’:tn OR ‘DRY COUGH & CONGESTION RELIEF’:tn OR ‘DRY COUGH  RELIEF’:tn OR ‘EDITOS’:tn OR ‘ERGIX ADULTES TOUX SECHE’:tn OR ‘ERGIX ENFANT TOUX SECHE’:tn  OR ‘ERGIX TOUX SECHE’:tn OR ‘EUPHONYLL TOUX SECHE DEXTROMETHORPHANE SANS SUCRE’:tn OR  ‘FLUDITEC DRY COUGH’:tn OR ‘FLUDITEC TOUX SECHE’:tn OR ‘FLUIMUCIL TOUX SECHE’:tn OR  ‘FORMEL 44’:tn OR ‘FORMEL SIRUP’:tn OR ‘FORMITROL TOSSE’:tn OR ‘FORMULATUS’:tn OR  ‘FRITUSIL’:tn OR ‘HOESTSIROOP MET HONING’:tn OR ‘HOESTTABLETTEN MET HONING’:tn OR ‘HUMEX  ADULTES TOUX SECHE’:tn OR ‘HUMEX ENFANTS TOUX SECHE’:tn OR ‘HUMEX PRO DETI  NA SUCHY  KASEL’:tn OR ‘HUMEXDRY ADULTS’:tn OR ‘HUMEXDRY CHILDREN’:tn OR ‘HUMISEC PENTRU  ADULTI’:tn OR ‘HUMISEC PENTRU COPII’:tn OR ‘HUSTEN -PASTILLEN’:tn OR ‘HUSTEN -SIRUP’:tn OR  ‘HUSTENSTILLER’:tn OR ‘INISTOLIN PEDIÁTRICO ANTITUSIVO’:tn OR ‘INISTON ANTITUSIVO’:tn OR  ‘INISTON ANTITUSIVO Y DESCONGESTIVO’:tn OR ‘KAUMATUSS’:tn OR ‘LAIRANT’:tn OR ‘LAITOS’:tn  OR ‘LARENTEL’:tn OR ‘MEBOCATUSS’:tn OR ‘MEDDEX’:tn OR ‘MEDOFED COMPOUND’:tn OR  ‘MEDORPHAN’:tn OR ‘MUCOTUSSIN’:tn OR ‘MUGOTUSSOL’:tn OR ‘MULTI -ACTION ACTIFED DRY  COUGHS’:tn OR ‘NEO BOROCILLINA SEDATIVO TOSSE’:tn OR ‘NEO BOROCILLINA TOSSE’:tn OR  ‘NEOTUSSAN’:tn OR ‘NODEX ADULTES’:tn OR ‘NON -DROWSY SUDAFED LINCTUS SUDAFED DRY  COUGHS WITH DECONGESTANT’:tn OR ‘NORMOTUS’:tn OR ‘NORTUSSINE MONO’:tn OR ‘NOTUS’:tn OR  ‘NOVAG TUSS’:tn OR ‘NUEDEXTA’:tn OR ‘OKALTUS’:tn OR ‘PARLATOS’:tn OR ‘POLISED’:tn OR  ‘PULMODEXANE’:tn OR ‘RECOTUSS SEDATIVO’:tn OR ‘RESILAR’:tn OR ‘RESYL DM’:tn OR ‘RINODEKS     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 167/368   PLUS’:tn OR ‘ROFEDEX’:tn OR ‘ROMETOR’:tn OR ‘ROMILAR’:tn OR ‘SETUSTOP’:tn OR ‘SILOMAT  DMP’:tn OR ‘SIR. EPHEDRIN’:tn OR ‘SOLMUCOL TOSSE SECCA’:tn OR ‘STOPEX JUNIOR’:tn OR  ‘STOPROPHARM’:tn OR ‘SURBRONC TOUX SECHE’:tn OR ‘THORNTON & ROSS NIGHT TIME ORAL  COUGH SYRUP’:tn OR ‘TIP SABOR MIEL -LIMÓN’:tn OR ‘TOCELIV’:tn OR ‘TOS MAI’:tn OR ‘TOSSE’:tn OR  ‘TOULARYNX DEXTROMETHORPHAN’:tn OR ‘TOUX SECHE MIEL PASTILLE’:tn OR ‘TOUX -SAN’:tn OR  ‘TOUXIUM ANTITUSSIVUM’:tn OR ‘TUSELIN DESCONGESTIVO’:tn OR ‘TUSIFAN’:tn OR ‘TUSSABRON  SYRUP’:tn OR ‘TUSSAL ANTITUSSICUM’:tn OR ‘TUSSASTOP’:tn OR ‘TUSSASTOPP’:tn OR ‘TUSSICAN’:tn  OR ‘TUSSIDANE’:tn OR ‘TUSSIDANE SANS SUCRE’:tn OR ‘TUSSIDRILL’:tn OR ‘TUSSIN’:tn OR  ‘TUSSIPECT’:tn OR ‘TUSSOPRONT’:tn OR ‘TUSSORAL’:tn OR ‘UNITUSS’:tn OR ‘VAPOTABS’:tn OR  ‘VICKS VAPOSYRUP’:tn OR ‘VINCITOS’:tn OR ‘VINCITOS FORTE FRASCO’:tn OR ‘XAROPE ANTITUSSICO  MEL’:tn OR ‘ZIRORPHAN’:tn OR ‘A -TUSSIN’:tn OR ‘ACODIN’:tn OR ‘ALKA -SELTZER PLUS MAX COUGH,  MUCUS AND CONGESTION’:tn OR ‘ALLFEN DM’:tn OR ‘AQUATAB DM’:tn OR ‘ASTOMARI’:tn OR ‘ATUSS  DS’:tn OR ‘BALMINIL DM’:tn OR ‘BEATHORPHAN’:tn OR ‘BENYLIN DM’:tn OR ‘BEXIN’:tn OR  ‘BISOLTUSSIN’:tn OR ‘BRONCHOPHAN FORTE DM’:tn OR ‘BRONCHOSEDAL’:tn OR ‘BUCKLEYS DM’:tn  OR ‘CALMERPHAN -L’:tn OR ‘CARBOFED DM’:tn OR ‘COUGH CONTROL DM’:tn OR ‘DAROLAN’:tn OR  ‘DEC’:tn OR ‘DELSYM’:tn OR ‘DETOMEFAN’:tn OR ‘DEX’:tn OR ‘DEXOFAN’:tn OR ‘DEXTOLAR’:tn OR  ‘DEXTROMETHORFANHYDROBROMIDEHYDRAAT SAMENWERKENDE APOTHEKERS’:tn OR  ‘DEXTROMETHORPHAN’:tn OR ‘DIMETAPP CHILDRENS COUGH AND COLD’:tn OR ‘DM’:tn OR ‘EMEDRIN  N’:tn OR ‘ERGIX’:tn OR ‘GUAIFENESIN DM’:tn OR ‘GUIATUSS DM’:tn OR ‘HT -TUSS DM’:tn OR ‘KOFFEX  DM’:tn OR ‘MAXIPHEN DM’:tn OR ‘MEDICON’:tn OR ‘MEZEC’:tn OR ‘MUCINEX DM’:tn OR ‘MUCINEX  FAST-MAX DM MAX’:tn OR ‘MUCO -FEN-DM’:tn OR ‘MUCOLEXIN’:tn OR ‘NOSPAN’:tn OR ‘NUEDEXTA’:tn  OR ‘PEDIA RELIEF’:tn OR ‘PULMOFOR’:tn OR ‘Q TUSSIN DM’:tn OR ‘RESILAR’:tn OR ‘ROBITUSSIN’:tn  OR ‘ROMILAR’:tn OR ‘SISAAL’:tn OR ‘TRIAMINIC COLD AND COUGH’:tn OR ‘TRIAMINIC DAYTIME  COUGH & COLD’:tn OR ‘TRIAMINIC LONG ACTING COUGH’:tn OR ‘TRIMEDAL TOSSE’:tn OR ‘TUSSI - BID’:tn OR ‘TUSSIDEX’:tn OR ‘TUSSILS’:tn OR ‘VICKS DAYQUIL’:tn OR ‘VICKS FORMULA 44D’:tn OR  ‘WAL TUSSIN’:tn OR ‘ZICAM’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   125.  Irinotecan   ‘IRINOTECAN’ OR ‘IRYNOTEKANU’ OR ‘IRINOTECANUM’ OR ‘IRINOTÉCAN’ OR ‘IRINOTECÁN’ OR  ‘BIOTECAN’:tn OR ‘BW -IRICAN’:tn OR ‘CAMPTERIL’:tn OR ‘CAMPTO’:tn OR ‘CANRI’:tn OR  ‘FAULTENOCAN’:tn OR ‘IRINO NC’:tn OR ‘IRINO -RATIO’:tn OR ‘IRINOCAN’:tn OR ‘IRINOKABI’:tn OR  ‘IRINOKABI  ONCOLOGY’:tn OR ‘IRINOLIQUID’:tn OR ‘IRINOMEDAC’:tn OR ‘IRINOSELA’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 168/368   ‘IRINOSIN’:tn OR ‘IRINOSYN’:tn OR ‘IRINOTECAN’:tn OR ‘IRINOTECAN -’:tn OR  ‘IRINOTECANHYDROCHLORID’:tn OR ‘IRINOTECANO’:tn OR ‘IRINOTEKAN’:tn OR ‘IRINOTEKAN  EBEWE’:tn OR ‘IRINOTEKAN HOSPIRA’:tn OR ‘IRINOTEKANIJEV KLORID’:tn OR ‘IRINOTESIN’:tn OR  ‘IRINOTOM’:tn OR ‘IRINTO’:tn OR ‘IRITEC’:tn OR ‘LUDIRADOL’:tn OR ‘MIZANTRONE’:tn OR  ‘NACETOMILAX’:tn OR ‘NARIMED’:tn OR ‘NEVOTECAM/RAFARM’:tn OR ‘NOXECAN’:tn OR  ‘RIBOIRINO’:tn OR ‘ROBEMAR’:tn OR ‘SANTACIL’:tn OR ‘VINTECAN’:tn OR ‘XAVETTA’:tn OR  ‘CAMPTO’:tn OR ‘CAMPTOSAR’:tn OR ‘EVOTERIN’:tn OR ‘IRINOLIQUID’:tn OR ‘IRINOTECAN’:tn OR  ‘TOPOTECIN’:tn OR ‘TREBYXAN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   126.  Ceftazidime   ‘CEFTAZIDIME’ OR ‘CEFT AZIDIM’ OR ‘CEFTAZYDYM’ OR ‘CEFTAZIDIMUM’ OR ‘KEFTATSIDIIMIA’ OR  ‘CEFTAZIDIMA’ OR ‘CEFTAZIDIM’ OR ‘CEFTAZIDIM’ OR ‘BIOTUM’:tn OR ‘CEFAZ’:tn OR ‘CEFTAMIL’:tn  OR ‘CEFTARIDEM’:tn OR ‘CEFTAZIDIM’:tn OR ‘CEFTAZIDIME’:tn OR ‘CEFTAZIM’:tn OR ‘DELTAZIME’:tn  OR ‘DIZATEC’:tn OR ‘FORTAM’:tn OR ‘FORTUM’:tn OR ‘FORTUMSET’:tn OR ‘FRIBAT’:tn OR  ‘GLAZIDIM’:tn OR ‘KEFADIM’:tn OR ‘LEMOXOL’:tn OR ‘LIOTIXIL’:tn OR ‘MAZDIMA’:tn OR ‘MIROCEF’:tn  OR ‘NOVOCRAL’:tn OR ‘PANZID’:tn OR ‘SEPTAX’:tn OR ‘SOLVETAN’:tn OR ‘SPECTRUM’:tn OR  ‘STARCEF’:tn OR ‘TAZALUX’:tn OR ‘TAZIDIF’:tn OR ‘ZEFADYM’:tn OR ‘CEFATUM’:tn OR ‘CEFIN’:tn OR  ‘CEFTAZIDIM’:tn OR ‘CEFTAZIDIMA’:tn OR ‘CEFTAZIDIME’:tn OR ‘CEFTIM’:tn OR ‘CEFTUM’:tn OR  ‘CEPTAZ’:tn OR ‘FORCAS’:tn OR ‘FORTAM’:tn OR ‘FORTAZ’:tn OR ‘FORTUM’:tn OR ‘KEFADIM’:tn OR  ‘KEFAMIN’:tn OR ‘MOBENZOCIN’:tn OR ‘MODACIN’:tn OR ‘MOSYL’:tn OR ‘PHARODIME’:tn OR  ‘SPECTRUM’:tn OR ‘TAZICEF’:tn OR ‘TAZIME’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 169/368   'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   127.  Lercanidipine   ‘LERCANIDIPINE’ OR ‘LERCANIDIPINUM’ OR ‘LERCANIDIPINE’ OR ‘LERCANIDIPINO’ OR ‘BRUNOQ’:tn  OR ‘CALCAN’:tn OR ‘CANILER’:tn OR ‘CARDIOVASC’:tn OR ‘CORIFEO’:tn OR ‘CORIFEO 20 MG’:tn OR  ‘KAPIDIN’:tn OR ‘KARNIDIN’:tn OR ‘LECALPIN’:tn OR ‘LEDIPIN’:tn OR ‘LERCADIP’:tn OR ‘LERCAL’:tn  OR ‘LERCAN’:tn OR ‘LERCANIDIPIN’:tn OR ‘LERCANIDIPIN CT’:tn OR ‘LERCANIDIPIN DURA’:tn OR  ‘LERCANIDIPIN -HCL’:tn OR ‘LERCANIDIPIN -OMNIAPHARM’:tn OR ‘LERCANIDIPIN -Q’:tn OR  ‘LERCANIDIPINA’:tn OR ‘LERCANIDIPINE’:tn OR ‘LERCANIDIPINE’:tn OR  ‘LERCANIDIPINHYDROCHLORID’:tn OR ‘LERCANIDIPINĂ’:tn OR ‘LERCANIDIPINЕ’:tn OR ‘LERCANI’:tn  OR ‘LERCANI’:tn OR ‘LERCATIO’:tn OR ‘LERCATON’:tn OR ‘LERCAVETA’:tn OR ‘LERCINIGEN’:tn OR  ‘LERDICAMIL’:tn OR ‘LERDIP’:tn OR ‘LERIDIP’:tn OR ‘LERKANIDIPIN’:tn OR ‘LERPIDIC’:tn OR  ‘LERPIN’:tn OR ‘LERTIN’:tn OR ‘LERZAM’:tn OR ‘LETOR’:tn OR ‘LISITENS’:tn OR ‘ORIDIP’:tn OR  ‘PEGFEL’:tn OR ‘PIKALL’:tn OR ‘PINOX’:tn OR ‘PRIMACOR’:tn OR ‘LER’:tn OR ‘ZANALI’:tn OR  ‘ZANEDIP’:tn OR ‘ZANICOR’:tn OR ‘ZANIDIP’:tn OR ‘АРЕТА’:tn OR ‘РЕНОВИА’:tn OR ‘ARETA’:tn OR  ‘CARDIOVASC’:tn OR ‘EVIPRESS’:tn OR ‘LERCADIP’:tn OR ‘LERCAMEN’:tn OR ‘LERCAN’:tn OR  ‘LERCANIDIPIN’:tn OR ‘LERDIP’:tn OR ‘LERKAMEN’:tn OR ‘LISITENS’:tn OR ‘PRIMACOR’:tn OR  ‘VASODIP’:tn OR ‘ZANEDIP’:tn OR ‘ZANIDIP’:tn OR ‘ZIRCOL’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   128.  Paclitaxel   ‘PACLITAXEL’ OR ‘TAXOL’ OR ‘PAKLITAXEL’ OR ‘PAKLITAKSEL’ OR ‘PAKLITAXELU’ OR ‘PACLITAXEL’ OR  ‘PAKLITAKSEL’ OR ‘PAKLITAKSEL’ OR ‘PAKLITAKSELS’ OR ‘PAKLITAKSELIS’ OR ‘PACLITAXELUM’ OR  ‘PACLITAXEL’ OR ‘PAKLÍTAXEL’ OR ‘PAKLITAXELT’ OR ‘PAKLITAKSEL’ OR ‘PACLITAXEL’ OR  ‘PAKLITAKSELIA’ OR ‘PAKLITAKSEEL’ OR ‘PACLITAXELUM’ OR ‘ABRAXANE’:tn OR ‘ANZATAX’:tn OR  ‘BIOTAXEL’:tn OR ‘BREVITAX’:tn OR ‘CEDOL’:tn OR ‘CELLTAXEL’:tn OR ‘EBETAXEL’:tn OR ‘EGILITAX’:tn  OR ‘EUROTAXEL’:tn OR ‘LETPAR’:tn OR ‘NEOTAXAN’:tn OR ‘ONCOTAX’:tn OR ‘OVAPAC’:tn OR  ‘PACLI’:tn OR ‘PACLIDOS’:tn OR ‘PACLIGEN’:tn OR ‘PACLIMEDAC’:tn OR ‘PACLINE’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 170/368   ‘PACLISAGI’:tn OR ‘PACLIT’:tn OR ‘PACLITAX’:tn OR ‘PACLITAXEL’:tn OR ‘PACLITAXEL’:tn OR  ‘PACLITAXELUM’:tn OR ‘PACLITAXIN’:tn OR ‘PACLITOL’:tn OR ‘PACLITOM’:tn OR ‘PAKLITAKSEL’:tn OR  ‘PAKLÍTAXEL’:tn OR ‘PAXENE PACLITAXEL’:tn OR ‘RIBOTAX’:tn OR ‘SINDAXEL’:tn OR ‘TACLI’:tn OR  ‘TAXOL’:tn OR ‘TAXOMEDAC’:tn OR ‘TAXOPROL’:tn OR ‘ABRAXANE’:tn OR ‘ACLIPAK’:tn OR  ‘ANZATAX’:tn OR ‘EBETAXEL’:tn OR ‘EVOTAXEL’:tn OR ‘GENEXOL’:tn OR ‘INTAXEL’:tn OR ‘ONXOL’:tn  OR ‘PACLITAXEL’:tn OR ‘PAXEL’:tn OR ‘PAXENE’:tn OR ‘PRAXEL’:tn OR ‘SINDAXEL’:tn OR  ‘TARVEXOL’:tn OR ‘TAXOL’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   129.  Xylometazoline   ‘XYLOMETAZOLINE’ OR ‘XYLOMETAZOLINUM’ OR ‘XYLOMÉTAZOLINE’ OR ‘XILOMETAZOLINA’ OR  ‘ACTIGRIP NASALE’:tn OR ‘ALLENASAL’:tn OR ‘AQUASPIRA’:tn OR ‘ARGOTONE DECONGESTIONANTE  NASALE’:tn OR ‘BAFUNASAL’:tn OR ‘BALKIS’:tn OR ‘BIXTONIM XYLO’:tn OR ‘BRUFASOL  NASENSPRAY’:tn OR ‘BRUMARIN’:tn OR ‘CLEAR NOSE’:tn OR ‘DEXYL MED DEKSPANTENOL’:tn OR  ‘DISNEMAR XYLO’:tn OR ‘DR. HENK BALKIS’:tn OR ‘DR. THEISS NASENSPRAY’:tn OR ‘ESPA -RHIN’:tn  OR ‘FRENASAL’:tn OR ‘GALAZOLIN’:tn OR ‘HEXARHINAL’:tn OR ‘HYSAN’:tn OR ‘IDYL  KINDERNEUSSPRAY XYLOMETAZOLINE HCL SDG FARMA’:tn OR ‘IDYL NEUSDRUPPELS  XYLOMETAZOLINE HCL SDG FARMA’:tn OR ‘IDYL NEUSSPRAY XYLOMETAZOLINE HCL SDG FARMA’:tn  OR ‘IMIDIN’:tn OR ‘INALAR RAFFREDDORE’:tn OR ‘IRINIC ‘:tn OR ‘KINDERNEUSDRUPPELS  XYLOMETAZOLINE’:tn OR ‘KINDERNEUSSPRAY XYLOMETAZOLINE HCL DA’:tn OR ‘KINDERNEUSSPRAY  XYLOMETAZOLINE HCL ETOS’:tn OR ‘KLARIMAX’:tn OR ‘KSYLOMETAZOLINY CHLOROWODOREK  BASIC’:tn OR ‘LEIDAPHARM NEUSDRUPPELS XYLOMETAZOLINE HCI’:tn OR ‘LEIDAPHARM NEUSSPRAY  XYLOMETAZOLINE HCI’:tn OR ‘LEIDAPHARM XYLOMETAZOLINE HCL’:tn OR ‘LISOMUCIL  DECONGESTIONANTE NASALE’:tn OR ‘LYNTOL’:tn OR ‘LÖSUNG, NASENSPRAY’:tn OR ‘LÖSUNG,  NASENTROPFEN’:tn OR ‘MAR RHINO’:tn OR ‘MARESYL’:tn OR ‘MAREXYL’:tn OR ‘MAXIRINO’:tn OR  ‘MERALYS’:tn OR ‘NARHIMED DOPPIA AZIONE’:tn OR ‘NARHIMED NASO CHIUSO’:tn OR ‘NASA  RHINATHIOL’:tn OR ‘NASADUR’:tn OR ‘NASAL DUO ACTIVE’:tn OR ‘NASASINUTAB’:tn OR  ‘NASENGEL’:tn OR ‘NASENGEL -’:tn OR ‘NASENSPRAY’:tn OR ‘NASENSPRAY -CT’:tn OR ‘NASENSPRAY - ’:tn OR ‘NASENTROPFEN’:tn OR ‘NASENTROPFEN -’:tn OR ‘NASEXILO SEM CONSERVANTES’:tn OR  ‘NASIC’:tn OR ‘НАЗИК’:tn OR ‘NASIC’:tn OR ‘НАЗИК’:tn OR ‘NASIC’:tn OR ‘NASO’:tn OR ‘NASO -’:tn OR  ‘NASOFERM’:tn OR ‘NASOLIN’:tn OR ‘NASOMARIS’:tn OR ‘NASONAL’:tn OR ‘NASOSYN’:tn OR  ‘NASOXYL’:tn OR ‘NAZAREN’:tn OR ‘NAZOL N’:tn OR ‘NESIN’:tn OR ‘NEUSDRUPPELS XYLOMETAZOLINE  HCL’:tn OR ‘NEUSSPRAY XYLOMETAZOLINE HCL’:tn OR ‘NEUSSPRAY, OPLOSSING’:tn OR ‘NOMEX’:tn     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 171/368   OR ‘NON -DROWSY SUDAFED DECONGESTANT’:tn OR ‘NOVORIN’:tn OR ‘NUSO -SAN MENTHOL’:tn OR  ‘OLYNTH’:tn OR ‘OLYNTH HA’:tn OR ‘OLYNTH HA BEZ KONSERVANTIEM’:tn OR ‘OLYNTH HA FARA  CONSERVANTI’:tn OR ‘OLYNTH N SCHNUPFEN DOSIERSPRAY OHNE KONSERVIERUNGSSTOFFE’:tn OR  ‘OLYNTH SCHNUPFEN DOSIERSPRAY’:tn OR ‘OLYNTH SCHNUPFEN LÖSUNG’:tn OR ‘OTRICOMB’:tn OR  ‘OTRIDUO’:tn OR ‘OTRIVEN DOSIERSPRAY OHNE KONSERVIERUNGSSTOFFE’:tn OR ‘FÜR ERWACHSENE  UND SCHULKINDER’:tn OR ‘OTRIVEN DOSIERSPRAY OHNE KONSERVIERUNGSSTOFFE’:tn OR ‘OTRIVEN  DUO’:tn OR ‘FÜR ERWACHSENE’:tn OR ‘OTRIVEN GEGEN SCHNUPFEN’:tn OR ‘NASENTROPFEN’:tn OR  ‘OTRIVEN GEGEN SCHNUPFEN’:tn OR ‘OTRIVEN SINUSPRAY’:tn OR ‘OTRIVIN’:tn OR ‘OTRIVINA’:tn OR  ‘OTRIVINE’:tn OR ‘RATIOSOFT’:tn OR ‘RHINIVIN’:tn OR ‘RHINO -STAS’:tn OR ‘RHINOVIN DUO’:tn OR  ‘RINIL’:tn OR ‘RINOBLANCO’:tn OR ‘SCHNUPFEN ENDRINE’:tn OR ‘SEPTANAZAL’:tn OR ‘SINUTAB  SPRAY’:tn OR ‘SNUP’:tn OR ‘SNUP SCHNUPFENSPRAY’:tn OR ‘STAS’:tn OR ‘SUDAFED’:tn OR  ‘TEPPIX’:tn OR ‘TEPPZIN 1 MG/ML’:tn OR ‘ ‐NAZAL’:tn OR ‘TIXYCOLDS COLD AND ALLERGY’:tn OR  ‘VIBROCIL ACTILONG’:tn OR ‘VIBROCIL ACTILONGDUO’:tn OR ‘VIBROCIL DUO’:tn OR ‘VICKS  DUOEFFECT’:tn OR ‘XELF’:tn OR ‘XOLIN’:tn OR ‘XYLADUR’:tn OR ‘XYLO AIWA’:tn OR ‘XYLO -COMOD’:tn  OR ‘XYLO -MEPHA’:tn OR ‘XYLO -NASAL’:tn OR ‘XYLO -POS’:tn OR ‘XYLOBENES’:tn OR ‘XYLODEX’:tn OR  ‘XYLODUO ‘:tn OR ‘XYLODUO -’:tn OR ‘XYLOFIN’:tn OR ‘XYLOGEL’:tn OR ‘XYLOIPRA’:tn OR  ‘XYLOMAX’:tn OR ‘XYLOMETAZOLIN’:tn OR ‘XYLOMETAZOLIN/DEXPANTHENOL’:tn OR  ‘XYLOMETAZOLINE/DEXPANTHENOL’:tn OR ‘XYLOMETAZOLINEHYDROCHLORIDE SAMENWERKENDE  APOTHEKERS’:tn OR ‘XYLOMETAZOLINHYDROCHLORID AL’:tn OR ‘XYLOMETAZOLINHYDROCHLORID AP  NOVARTIS CONSUMER HEALTH’:tn OR ‘XYLONASE’:tn OR ‘XYLOPHARM’:tn OR ‘XYLORHIN’:tn OR  ‘XYLORIN’:tn OR ‘XYLOZOLIN’:tn OR ‘XYMELIN’:tn OR ‘XYMELIN MENTHOL’:tn OR ‘XYMERAL’:tn OR  ‘ZYCOMB’:tn OR ‘ZYMELIN’:tn OR ‘DECONGEST’:tn OR ‘NASENSPRAY -CT’:tn OR ‘NASIC’:tn OR  ‘NASO’:tn OR ‘NOVORIN’:tn OR ‘OTRIVEN’:tn OR ‘OTRIVIN’:tn OR ‘OTRIVINA’:tn OR ‘OTRIVINE’:tn OR  ‘PHARMAZOLIN’:tn OR ‘RINOSEDIN’:tn OR ‘SNUP’:tn OR ‘SUDAFED’:tn OR ‘XILEN’:tn OR ‘XYLO - MEPHA’:tn OR ‘XYLOMETAZOLIN’:tn OR ‘XYLOMETAZOLINEHYDROCHLORIDE SAMENWERKENDE  APOTHEKERS’:tn OR ‘XYMELIN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   130.  Epinephrine   ‘EPINEPHRINE’ OR ‘ADRENALIN’ OR ‘ADRENALINUM’ OR ‘ADRENALINE’ OR ‘EPINEFRIN’ OR  ‘EPINEFRINA’ OR ‘EPINEFRYNA’ OR ‘EPINEFRINE’ OR ‘EPINEFRĪNS’ OR ‘EPINEPHRINUM’ OR  ‘ADRENALINA’ OR ‘EPINEFRIN’ OR ‘ADRÉNALINE’ OR ‘ÉPINÉPHRINE’ OR ‘EPINÉPHRINE’ OR  ‘ADRENALIINI’ OR ‘ADRENALINA’ OR ‘EPINEFRINA’ OR ‘EPINEPHRIN’ OR ‘ADRENALIN’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 172/368   ‘EPINEFRIN’:tn OR ‘ADRENALIN’:tn OR ‘ADRENALINA’:tn OR ‘ADRENALINE’:tn OR ‘ADRENALINĂ’:tn OR  ‘ALFACAINA CON ADRENALINA’:tn OR ‘ALPHACAINE N’:tn OR ‘ALPHACAINE SP’:tn OR ‘ALTELLUS  ADULTOS’:tn OR ‘ALTELLUS NIÑOS’:tn OR ‘ANAPEN’:tn OR ‘ANES’:tn OR ‘ARTERENOL’:tn OR  ‘ARTICADENT’:tn OR ‘ARTICAINA’:tn OR ‘ARTICAINA/ EPINEFRINA DERMOGEN’:tn OR  ‘ARTICAINHYDROCHLORID MIT EPINEPHRIN PIERREL’:tn OR ‘ARTICAÍNA + ADRENALINA NORMON’:tn  OR ‘ARTIDENTAL’:tn OR ‘ARTIN’:tn OR ‘ARTINESTOL’:tn OR ‘ARTINIBSA’:tn OR ‘ARTINOSTRUM’:tn OR  ‘AVENOC’:tn OR ‘BUPICAIN CON ADRENALINA’:tn OR ‘BUPISEN CON ADRENALINA’:tn OR ‘BUPIVACAIN  MIT EPINEPHRIN JENAPHARM’:tn OR ‘BUPIVACAINE & ADRENALINE’:tn OR ‘BUPIVACAINE  ADRENALINE’:tn OR ‘BUPIVACAINE HYDROCHLORIDE AND ADRENALINE’:tn OR ‘BUPIXAMOL CON  ADRENALINA’:tn OR ‘CARBOPLYINA CON ADRENALINA’:tn OR ‘CARBOSEN CON ADRENALINA’:tn OR  ‘CARTIDONT’:tn OR ‘CITOCARTIN’:tn OR ‘DENTOCAINE’:tn OR ‘DILUTE ADRENALINE’:tn OR  ‘EMERADE’:tn OR ‘EPINEPHRINE’:tn OR ‘EPINEPHRINE BITARTRATE PCH’:tn OR ‘EPISTAXOL’:tn OR  ‘ESPESTESIN’:tn OR ‘FASTJEKT’:tn OR ‘FASTJEKT JUNIOR’:tn OR ‘INIBSACAIN’:tn OR ‘JEXT’:tn OR ‘L - ADRENALIN FRESENIUS’:tn OR ‘L -NORADRENALINA BRAUN’:tn OR ‘LEVONOR’:tn OR ‘LEVOPHED’:tn  OR ‘LONCARTI 40/0,005 MG/ML’:tn OR ‘LONCARTI 40/0,01 MG/ML’:tn OR ‘MEGANEST’:tn OR ‘MEPI  MYNOL’:tn OR ‘MEPICAIN CON ADRENALINA’:tn OR ‘MEPIDONT’:tn OR ‘MEPISOLVER CON  ADRENALINA’:tn OR ‘MEPIVACAINA CON ADRENALINA’:tn OR ‘MEPIVACAINE HYDROCHLORIDE +  ADRENALINE BITARTRATE ASTRAZENECA’:tn OR ‘MEPIVAMOL’:tn OR ‘NEPIPE’:tn OR ‘NEPIPE  JUNIOR’:tn OR ‘NORADREN’:tn OR ‘NORADRENALIN’:tn OR ‘NORADRENALINA (NOREPINEFRINA)  HOSPIRA’:tn OR ‘NORADRENALINA BASI’:tn OR ‘NORADRENALINA CLINTEX’:tn OR  ‘NORADRENALINE’:tn OR ‘OPTOCAIN’:tn OR ‘ORABLOC’:tn OR ‘PREDESIC ADRÉNALINÉ’:tn OR  ‘PRIMACAINE ADRENALINE’:tn OR ‘SANTAHERBA’:tn OR ‘SARTICAIN CON ADRENALINA’:tn OR  ‘SCANDINIBSA’:tn OR ‘SCANDONEST’:tn OR ‘SCANDONEST -ADRENALIN’:tn OR ‘SEPTANEST’:tn OR  ‘SEPTANEST -N’:tn OR ‘SEPTOCAINE’:tn OR ‘SOPIRA CITOCARTIN’:tn OR ‘SUPRACAIN’:tn OR  ‘SUPRARENIN’:tn OR ‘TONOGEN’:tn OR ‘UBISTESIN’:tn OR ‘ULTRACAIN’:tn OR ‘XECAINE SPECIALE, À  USAGE DENTAIRE’:tn OR ‘ADRENALINE’:tn OR ‘ANAKIT’:tn OR ‘ANAPEN’:tn OR ‘ARTERENOL’:tn OR  ‘ARTINIBSA’:tn OR ‘AUVI -Q’:tn OR ‘BOSMIN’:tn OR ‘CARBOCAIN ADRENALIN’:tn OR ‘CARBOSTESIN’:tn  OR ‘DELTAZINE’:tn OR ‘EPIFRIN’:tn OR ‘EPIPEN’:tn OR ‘FASTJEKT’:tn OR ‘KARTICAINE FORTE’:tn OR  ‘LEVONOR’:tn OR ‘LEVOPHED’:tn OR ‘MARCAIN -ADRENALIN’:tn OR ‘MARCAINE ADRENALINE’:tn OR  ‘MARCAINE EPINEPHRINE’:tn OR ‘MARCAINE WITH EPINEPHRINE’:tn OR ‘NOREPINEFRINE’:tn OR  ‘PRIMACAINE ADRENALINE’:tn OR ‘PRIMATENE MIST’:tn OR ‘SCANDONEST’:tn OR ‘SENSORCAINE MPF  WITH EPINEPHRINE’:tn OR ‘SENSORCAINE WITH EPINEPHRINE’:tn OR ‘SEPTANEST’:tn OR  ‘SEPTOCAINE’:tn OR ‘SUPRARENIN’:tn OR ‘TWINJECT’:tn OR ‘UBISTESIN’:tn OR ‘ULTRACAIN D -S’:tn  OR ‘ULTRACAINE’:tn OR ‘VAPONEFRIN’:tn OR ‘VIVACAINE’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 173/368   OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   131.  Piroxicam   ‘PIROXICAM’ OR ‘PIROKSYKAM’ OR ‘PIROKSIKĀMS’ OR ‘PIR OKSIKAMAS’ OR ‘PIROXICAMUM’ OR  ‘PÍROXÍKAM’ OR ‘PIROXIKÁM’ OR ‘PIROKSIKAAMIA’ OR ‘PIROKSIKAAMI’ OR ‘PIROKSIKAAM’ OR  ‘PIROXICAM’ OR ‘PIROXICAM’ OR ‘PIROXICAM’ OR ‘ANTIFLOG’:tn OR ‘ARTROXICAM’:tn OR  ‘BLEDURAN’:tn OR ‘BREXIDOL’:tn OR ‘BREXIN’:tn OR ‘BREXINE’:tn OR ‘BREXINE -DRYFIZ’:tn OR  ‘BREXIVEL’:tn OR ‘BRUXICAM’:tn OR ‘CICLADOL’:tn OR ‘CLEVIAN’:tn OR ‘CYCLADOL’:tn OR ‘DOLAUT  MONO’:tn OR ‘ERAZON’:tn OR ‘FELDEGEL’:tn OR ‘FELDEN’:tn OR ‘FELDENE’:tn OR ‘FLAMEXIN’:tn OR  ‘FLEXAR’:tn OR ‘FLEXASE’:tn OR ‘GELDENE’:tn OR ‘HOTEMIN’:tn OR ‘IMPRONTAL’:tn OR ‘IPSOFLOG’:tn  OR ‘JENAPIROX’:tn OR ‘KINSKIDOL CREMA’:tn OR ‘LAMPOFLEX’:tn OR ‘LENOTAC’:tn OR ‘LUBOR’:tn OR  ‘LUBORETA’:tn OR ‘PIROBEC’:tn OR ‘PIROCUTAN’:tn OR ‘PIROFTAL’:tn OR ‘PIROM’:tn OR ‘PIROMED’:tn  OR ‘PIROMED DISPERS’:tn OR ‘PIROX’:tn OR ‘PIROX -CT’:tn OR ‘PIROXICAM’:tn OR ‘PIROXIN’:tn OR  ‘PIROXISTAD’:tn OR ‘PIROXSAL’:tn OR ‘PROXALYOC’:tn OR ‘REMISIL’:tn OR ‘REUMAGIL’:tn OR  ‘REUMOXICAN’:tn OR ‘ROXIDEN’:tn OR ‘ROXITAN’:tn OR ‘SALVACAM’:tn OR ‘SASULEN’:tn OR  ‘SCANNING’:tn OR ‘SINARTROL’:tn OR ‘SOLICAM’:tn OR ‘SOTILEN’:tn OR ‘ZEROSPASM’:tn OR  ‘ZOFORA’:tn OR ‘ANARTRIT’:tn OR ‘ARUDEIN’:tn OR ‘BAXO’:tn OR ‘BREXECAM’:tn OR ‘BREXICAM’:tn  OR ‘BREXIN’:tn OR ‘BREXINE’:tn OR ‘BRUCAM’:tn OR ‘CICLADOL’:tn OR ‘CYCLADOL’:tn OR  ‘DEXALIN’:tn OR ‘EUROXI’:tn OR ‘FACICAM’:tn OR ‘FASAX’:tn OR ‘FELDEN’:tn OR ‘FELDENE’:tn OR  ‘FELDENE -D’:tn OR ‘FINALGEL’:tn OR ‘FLEXAR’:tn OR ‘FLEXASE’:tn OR ‘FLEXIROX’:tn OR  ‘FLOXICAM’:tn OR ‘FLUCAM’:tn OR ‘GELDENE’:tn OR ‘MOBILIS’:tn OR ‘PALPASIN’:tn OR ‘PIRAX’:tn OR  ‘PIROX’:tn OR ‘PIROXICAM -MEPHA’:tn OR ‘PIROXIN’:tn OR ‘PIXICAM’:tn OR ‘PROPONOL’:tn OR  ‘PROXIMAX’:tn OR ‘ROSIDEN’:tn OR ‘ROXICAM’:tn OR ‘ROXIFEN.’:tn OR ‘XYCAM’:tn AND ('adverse  drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR  'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   132.  Potassium Chloride   ‘POTASSIUM CHLORIDE’ OR ‘KCL’ OR ‘CHLORURE DE POTASSIUM’ OR ‘KALIUMCHLORID’ OR  ‘KALIUMKLORID’ OR ‘KALII CHLORIDUM’ OR ‘CHLORID DRASELNÝ’ OR ‘KALIUMKLORID’ OR ‘KALIJEV  KLORID’ OR ‘CHLORID DRASELNÝ’ OR ‘KALII CHLORIDUM’ OR ‘CLORURĂ DE POTASIU’ OR ‘CLORETO  DE POTÁSSIO’ OR ‘POTASU CHLOREK’ OR ‘CHLOREK POTASU’ OR ‘KALIUMKLORID’ OR  ‘KALIUMCHLORIDE’ OR ‘POTASSIUM CHLORIDE’ OR ‘KĀLIJA HLORĪDS’ OR ‘KALIO CHLORIDAS’ OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 174/368   ‘KALIUM CHLORATUM’ OR ‘KALII CHLORIDUM’ OR ‘POTASSIO CLORURO’ OR ‘CLORURO DI POTASSIO’  OR ‘KÁLIUM -KLORID’ OR ‘KALÍUMKLÓRÍÐ’ OR ‘KÁLIUM -KLORID’ OR ‘KALIJEV KLORID’ OR ‘CLÓIRÍD  POTAISIAM’ OR ‘POTASSIUM CHLORIDE’ OR ‘POTASSIUM (CHLORURE DE)’ OR ‘CHLORURE DE  POTASSIUM’ OR ‘KALIUMKLORIDI’ OR ‘KAALIUMKLORIID (E508)’ OR ‘KAALIUMKLORIID’ OR ‘CLORURO  DE POTASIO’ OR ‘CLORURO POTÁSICO’ OR ‘KALIUMCHLORIDE’ OR ‘KALIUMCHLORID’ OR  ‘KALIUMCHLORID’ OR ‘KALII CHLORIDUM’ OR ‘CHLORID DRASELNÝ’ OR ‘PS‘ OR ‘1 M -KALIUMCHLORID - LÖSUNG’ OR ‘ADDEX -KALIUMKLORID’ OR ‘ADDEX -KALIUMKLORID’:tn OR ‘AMINOFUSIN HEPAR’:tn OR  ‘AP-INYECT’:tn OR ‘BENDROZA’:tn OR ‘CARDIOPLEGIA’:tn OR ‘CELSIOR’:tn OR ‘CENTYL’:tn OR  ‘CHLOROPOTASSURIL’:tn OR ‘CHLORURE DE POTASSIUM’:tn OR ‘CLORURA DE POTASIU’:tn OR  ‘CONCENTRATE FOR CARDIOPLEGIA’:tn OR ‘DIFFU K’:tn OR ‘DIUMIDE -K’:tn OR ‘ELETTROLITICA  EQUILIBRATA PEDIATRICA’:tn OR ‘ELOZELL SPEZIAL’:tn OR ‘EUROCOLLINS SOLUZIONE A MONICO’:tn  OR ‘FOURCHESTRA’:tn OR ‘FOURCHESTRA PERIFER’:tn OR ‘GLUCOSA Y CLORURO POTÁSICO, VIAFLO  ’:tn OR ‘GLUCOSIO CON POTASSIO CLORURO’:tn OR ‘GLUCOSIO E POTASSIO CLORURO’:tn OR  ‘HOMEOPTIC’:tn OR ‘ISOLYTE P, INYECCION, VIAFLEX’:tn OR ‘KABIVEN’:tn OR ‘KALDYUM’:tn OR  ‘KALEORID’:tn OR ‘KALII CHLORIDUM/GLUCOSUM ’:tn OR ‘KALIJ -KLORID HRVATSKI ZAVOD ZA  TRANSFUZIJSKU MEDICINU’:tn OR ‘KALIJEV KLORID’:tn OR ‘KALISOL’:tn OR ‘KALIUM CHLORATUM’:tn  OR ‘KALIUM POLFARMEX’:tn OR ‘KALIUMCHLORID -KÖHLER’:tn OR ‘KALIUMCHLORID -LÖSUNG’:tn OR  ‘KALIUMCHLORID/GLUCOSE ’:tn OR ‘KALIUMKLORID’:tn OR ‘KALIUMKLORID -GLUKOSE’:tn OR  ‘KALNORMIN’:tn OR ‘KAY -CEE-L’:tn OR ‘KCL’:tn OR ‘KCL -RETARD’:tn OR ‘KCL -RETARD ZYMA’:tn OR  ‘KÁLIUM -KLORID ‘:tn OR ‘KÁLIUM -R PHARMASWISS ČESKÁ REPUBLIKA’:tn OR ‘LENTO -KALIUM’:tn OR  ‘MICRO -KALIUM’:tn OR ‘MIRAL’:tn OR ‘NACL -LÖSUNG’:tn OR ‘NEO -NACLEX -K’:tn OR ‘PERIKABIVEN’:tn  OR ‘PERISMOFVEN’:tn OR ‘PERIVEN’:tn OR ‘POTASIO EN GLUCOSA GRIFOLS’:tn OR ‘POTASIO  PREDILUIDO EN GLUCOSA’:tn OR ‘POTASION’:tn OR ‘POTASSIUM CHLORIDE’:tn OR ‘POTASSIUM  CHORIDE FRESENIUS’:tn OR ‘QUATRIGA’:tn OR ‘QUATRIGA PERIFER’:tn OR ‘REKAWAN’:tn OR  ‘SECALAN’:tn OR ‘SLOW K’:tn OR ‘SLOW -K’:tn OR ‘SMOFKABIVEN’:tn OR ‘SOLUZIONE DI  EUROCOLLINS’:tn OR ‘STERILE POTASSIUM CHLORIDE’:tn OR ‘STRUCTOKABIVEN’:tn OR  ‘STRUCTOKABIVEN’:tn OR ‘VAMIN’:tn OR ‘AMINOFUSIN HEPAR’:tn OR ‘K’:tn OR ‘CARDIOPLEGIA’:tn OR  ‘CELSIOR’:tn OR ‘CONCLYTE -K’:tn OR ‘DIFFU K’:tn OR ‘DURO -K’:tn OR ‘EURO -K’:tn OR ‘F -ZUREN K’:tn  OR ‘K -DUR’:tn OR ‘K -LOR’:tn OR ‘K -LYTE CL’:tn OR ‘K -SUPPLY’:tn OR ‘K -TAB’:tn OR ‘K -VESCENT’:tn  OR ‘K10’:tn OR ‘KALEORID’:tn OR ‘KALEORID LP’:tn OR ‘KALINOR’:tn OR ‘KALIPOZ’:tn OR ‘KALIUM  CHLORATUM’:tn OR ‘KALIUM DURETTES’:tn OR ‘KALIUM DURULES’:tn OR ‘KALIUM -DURILES’:tn OR  ‘KALIUMCHLORID’:tn OR ‘KALIUMCHLORIDE’:tn OR ‘KALIUMKLORID’:tn OR ‘KALNORMIN’:tn OR  ‘KAOCHLOR’:tn OR ‘KAON -CL’:tn OR ‘KAY -CEE-L’:tn OR ‘ZYMA’:tn OR ‘KLOR -CON’:tn OR ‘KLOTRIX’:tn  OR ‘LASIX -K’:tn OR ‘MICRO -K’:tn OR ‘MIRAL’:tn OR ‘OLICLINOMEL’:tn OR ‘OLIMEL N9E’:tn OR  ‘PERIOLIMEL’:tn OR ‘PERIOLIMEL MIT ELEKTROLYTEN’:tn OR ‘PLENISH -K’:tn OR ‘POTASION’:tn OR  ‘POTASSIUM CHLORIDE’:tn OR ‘REPALYTE’:tn OR ‘RIVA K SR’:tn OR ‘SALURES -K’:tn OR ‘SANDO -K’:tn  OR ‘SLOW K’:tn OR ‘SLOW -K’:tn OR ‘SMOFKABIVEN’:tn OR ‘SMOFKABIVEN PERIFER’:tn OR ‘SPAN K’:tn  AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR  misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp  OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 175/368   'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   133.  Sumatriptan   ‘SUMATRIPTAN’ OR ‘SUMATRYPTAN’ OR ‘SUMATRIPTANUM’ OR ‘SZUMATRIPTÁN’ OR ‘SUMA TRIPTAANI’  OR ‘SUMATRIPTÁN’ OR ‘ALTAXA’:tn OR ‘AMIGREN’:tn OR ‘AMIGRENEX’:tn OR ‘CINIE’:tn OR  ‘FORCET’:tn OR ‘FRIMIG’:tn OR ‘ILLUMENT’:tn OR ‘IMIGRAN’:tn OR ‘IMIGRAN -INJECT’:tn OR  ‘IMIGRAN -T’:tn OR ‘IMIGRANE’:tn OR ‘IMIJECT’:tn OR ‘IMITREX’:tn OR ‘IMITREXTM SC’:tn OR  ‘MIGRAITAN SUMIBRIL’:tn OR ‘MIGRALEVE ULTRA’:tn OR ‘MIGRAPTAN’:tn OR ‘MIGRENOXIN TABLETKI  POWLEKANE’:tn OR ‘MIGRIPTAN’:tn OR ‘NOMIGRANE’:tn OR ‘ORIPTAN’:tn OR ‘ROSEMIG’:tn OR  ‘SUMA’:tn OR ‘SUMA -T’:tn OR ‘SUMACTA’:tn OR ‘SUMAMIGREN’:tn OR ‘SUMATRAN’:tn OR  ‘SUMATRIPTAM FILM COATED TABLETS’:tn OR ‘SUMATRIPTAN’:tn OR ‘SUMATRIPTAN -KRANIT’:tn OR  ‘SUMATRIPTAN -’:tn OR ‘SUMATRIPTÁN’:tn OR ‘SUMIG’:tn OR ‘SUMIGRA’:tn OR ‘SUMY’:tn OR  ‘SUVALAN’:tn OR ‘TRIPTAGRAM’:tn OR ‘TRIPTALIDON’:tn OR ‘TRIPTI HEXAL’:tn OR ‘XIBIMER’:tn OR  ‘ALSUMA’:tn OR ‘FORCET’:tn OR ‘IMIGRAN’:tn OR ‘IMITREX’:tn OR ‘SUMATRIPTAN’:tn OR ‘SUMA’:tn OR  ‘SUMAMIGREN’:tn OR ‘SUMATRAN’:tn OR ‘SUMATRIDEX’:tn OR ‘SUMATRIPTAN -MEPHA’:tn OR  ‘SUMAVEL’:tn OR ‘SUMAVEL DOSEPRO’:tn OR ‘SUMAX’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   134.  Perindopril   ‘PERINDOPRIL’ OR ‘PERINDOPRILUM’ OR ‘PERINDOPRILE’ OR ‘PÉRINDOPRIL’ OR ‘PERINDOX’ OR  ‘ARMIX ARGININ’:tn OR ‘ASYNTILSAN’:tn OR ‘BIOPREXANIL’:tn OR ‘CARDIPEN’:tn OR ‘CIPEDRIL  TABL’:tn OR ‘COVERSORAL’:tn OR ‘COVERSUM’:tn OR ‘COVERSYL’:tn OR ‘DOMANION’:tn OR  ‘ERBUGEN’:tn OR ‘ERNYOM’:tn OR ‘GLEPERIL’:tn OR ‘IKARIUM’:tn OR ‘INPIL’:tn OR ‘KENOMON’:tn OR  ‘LEXTRIL’:tn OR ‘MARIPER’:tn OR ‘MIZDENA’:tn OR ‘MYDEN’:tn OR ‘PAMONOVA’:tn OR ‘PENDREX’:tn  OR ‘PERCARNIL’:tn OR ‘PERINDALON’:tn OR ‘PERINDARG’:tn OR ‘PERINDEP’:tn OR ‘PERINDOBAX’:tn  OR ‘PERINDOCOR’:tn OR ‘PERINDOCYL’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL -ERBUMIN’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL -’:tn OR  ‘PERINDOPRIL -TOZILÁT -’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRILARGININ SERVIER’:tn OR ‘PERINEVA’:tn OR  ‘PERIVOL’:tn OR ‘PRENESSA’:tn OR ‘PRENESSA Q -TAB’:tn OR ‘PRESOMYL’:tn OR ‘PRESTARIUM’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 176/368   ‘PREXANIL’:tn OR ‘PREXANIL A’:tn OR ‘PRICORON’:tn OR ‘PRILANIL’:tn OR ‘PRILLANA’:tn OR  ‘PRINDACE’:tn OR ‘PRINDEX’:tn OR ‘PRINOPRIL’:tn OR ‘PROCAPTAN’:tn OR ‘RANBAPRIL’:tn OR  ‘RELIKA’:tn OR ‘RINDOLEX’:tn OR ‘SIMPRIL’:tn OR ‘STOPRESS’:tn OR ‘TREZEN’:tn OR ‘VIDOTIN’:tn OR  ‘VOXIN’:tn OR ‘ZAPRINEL’:tn OR ‘ACERTIL’:tn OR ‘PERINDO’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL’:tn OR  ‘COBATHROW’:tn OR ‘COVERENE’:tn OR ‘COVEREX’:tn OR ‘COVERSUM’:tn OR ‘COVERSYL’:tn OR  ‘IDAPREX’:tn OR ‘INDOPRIL’:tn OR ‘INDOSYL MONO’:tn OR ‘LEVENOR’:tn OR ‘PERICOR’:tn OR  ‘PERIGARD’:tn OR ‘PERINDO’:tn OR ‘PERINDOPRIL -ERBUMIN’:tn OR ‘PERINEVA’:tn OR ‘PERINSYL’:tn  OR ‘PRENESSA’:tn OR ‘PRESTARIUM’:tn OR ‘PREXANIL’:tn OR ‘PREXUM’:tn OR ‘PROCAPTAN’:tn OR  ‘TREZEN’:tn OR ‘VECTORYL’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   135.  Doxycycline   ‘DOXYCYCLINE’ OR ‘DOXICICLINA’ OR ‘DOKSYCYKLINA’ OR ‘DOXYCYCLINE’ OR ‘DOXYCYCLINUM’ OR  ‘DOXICICLINA’ OR ‘DOXYCYCLINE’ OR ‘DOXICICLINA’ OR ‘DOXYCYCLIN’ OR ‘ACTIDOX’:tn OR  ‘ADJUSAN’:tn OR ‘BASSADO’:tn OR ‘DEOXYMYKOIN’:tn OR ‘DOCIN’:tn OR ‘DOKSICIKLIN BELUPO’:tn  OR ‘DOKSIVIBRA’:tn OR ‘DOKSYCYKLIN HEXAL’:tn OR ‘DOSIL’:tn OR ‘DOTUR’:tn OR ‘DOXAKNE’:tn OR  ‘DOXAM MONO’:tn OR ‘DOXAT’:tn OR ‘DOXCYCLINE KENT’:tn OR ‘DOXICICLINA’:tn OR ‘DOXIMED’:tn  OR ‘DOXIMYCIN’:tn OR ‘DOXITEN BIO’:tn OR ‘DOXITIDIN’:tn OR ‘DOXITIN’:tn OR ‘DOXY’:tn OR ‘DOXY - CT’:tn OR ‘DOXY -M’:tn OR ‘DOXY -M-’:tn OR ‘DOXYBENE’:tn OR ‘DOXYCYCLINE’:tn OR ‘DOXYCYKLIN  EQL’:tn OR ‘DOXYDERM’:tn OR ‘DOXYDERMA’:tn OR ‘DOXYDYN’:tn OR ‘DOXYFERM’:tn OR  ‘DOXYHEXAL’:tn OR ‘DOXYLAN’:tn OR ‘DOXYLAR’:tn OR ‘DOXYLETS’:tn OR ‘DOXYLIN’:tn OR  ‘DOXYLIS’:tn OR ‘DOXYMINE’:tn OR ‘DOXYNOR’:tn OR ‘DOXYNORD’:tn OR ‘DOXYPALU’:tn OR  ‘DOXYPHARM’:tn OR ‘DOXYPROTECT 100 MG KAPSZ’:tn OR ‘DOXYPROTECT 200 MG KAPSZ’:tn OR  ‘DOXYRATIO M’:tn OR ‘DOXYSTAD’:tn OR ‘EFRACEA’:tn OR ‘FARMODOXI’:tn OR  ‘GRA100TAB__ES__50404’:tn OR ‘GRANUDOXY’:tn OR ‘HIRAMICIN’:tn OR ‘HUMA -DOXYLIN’:tn OR  ‘LIGOSAN’:tn OR ‘LIGOSLO’:tn OR ‘MEDOMYCIN’:tn OR ‘MIRACLIN’:tn OR ‘NOVIMAX’:tn OR  ‘ORACEA’:tn OR ‘ORAYCEA’:tn OR ‘PERIOSAN’:tn OR ‘PERIOSTAT’:tn OR ‘PRODERMA’:tn OR  ‘REMYCIN’:tn OR ‘REXILEN’:tn OR ‘SMILITENE’:tn OR ‘TENUTAN KAPSZULA’:tn OR ‘TOLEXINE’:tn OR  ‘VIBRACINA’:tn OR ‘VIBRADOX’:tn OR ‘VIBRAMICINA’:tn OR ‘VIBRANORD’:tn OR ‘VIBRATAB’:tn OR  ‘VIBRAVEINEUSE’:tn OR ‘VIBRAVENOSA’:tn OR ‘VIBRAVENÖS’:tn OR ‘ADOXA’:tn OR ‘DOXY’:tn OR  ‘ATRIDOX’:tn OR ‘BASSADO’:tn OR ‘BY -MYCIN’:tn OR ‘DOVICIN’:tn OR ‘DOXICLAT’:tn OR  ‘DOXIMYCIN’:tn OR ‘DOXIN’:tn OR ‘DOXINE’:tn OR ‘DOXITAB’:tn OR ‘DOXITIN’:tn OR ‘DOXY’:tn OR  ‘DOXY -50’:tn OR ‘DOXYCIN’:tn OR ‘DOXYCLIN’:tn OR ‘DOXYCLINE’:tn OR ‘DOXYCYCLIN’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 177/368   ‘DOXYCYCLINE’:tn OR ‘DOXYCYL’:tn OR ‘DOXYDYN’:tn OR ‘DOXYHEXAL’:tn OR ‘DOXYLIN’:tn OR  ‘DOXYMYCIN’:tn OR ‘DOXYPALU’:tn OR ‘DOXYSOL’:tn OR ‘DOXYTAB’:tn OR ‘MEDOMYCIN’:tn OR  ‘MONOCLINE’:tn OR ‘MONODOX’:tn OR ‘NOVO -DOXYLIN’:tn OR ‘ORACEA’:tn OR ‘PERIOSTAT’:tn OR  ‘SPANOR’:tn OR ‘SUPRACYCLIN’:tn OR ‘TETRADOX’:tn OR ‘TOLEXINE’:tn OR ‘UNIDOX’:tn OR ‘VIBRA - TABS’:tn OR ‘VIBRAMICINA’:tn OR ‘VIBRATAB’:tn OR ‘VIBRAVEINEUSE’:tn OR ‘VIBRAVENÖS’:tn AND  ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti  OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   136.  Glucosamine   ‘GLUCOSAMINE’ OR ‘GLUKOSAMIN’ OR ‘GLUKOZAMINA’ OR ‘GLUKOZAMIN’ OR ‘GLUKOZAMÍN’ OR  ‘GLUCOSAMINA’ OR ‘GLUKOSAMIN’ OR ‘GLUCOSAMINE’ OR ‘GLUCOSAMINUM’ OR ‘GLUCOSAMINA’ OR  ‘GLÚKÓSAMÍNI’ OR ‘GLÜKÓZAMINT’ OR ‘GLUCOSAMINE’ OR ‘GLUKOSAMIINI’ OR ‘GLÜKOOSAMIIN’ OR  ‘GLÜKOOSAMIINI’ OR ‘GLUCOSAMINA’ OR ‘GLUCOSAMIN’ OR ‘GLUCOSAMIN’ OR ‘GLUCOSAMINUM’ OR  ‘ACENAM’:tn OR ‘ACTISTAV’:tn OR ‘ALATERIS’:tn OR ‘ANARTHRIL’:tn OR ‘ANDUR’:tn OR ‘ARAFISIO’:tn  OR ‘ARTAXIN’:tn OR ‘ARTHRIMEL’:tn OR ‘ARTROX’:tn OR ‘BAYFLEX’:tn OR ‘BEST’:tn OR ‘BOLEVO’:tn  OR ‘BONARTOS’:tn OR ‘CARTIFLEX’:tn OR ‘CARTILAMIN’:tn OR ‘CARTISORB’:tn OR ‘CLORHIDRAT DE  GLUCOZAMINA TERIX’:tn OR ‘CODEROL’:tn OR ‘COMFORA’:tn OR ‘CONDROAGE’:tn OR  ‘CONDROMORE’:tn OR ‘COUNTERFLEX’:tn OR ‘DOLENIO’:tn OR ‘DONA’:tn OR ‘DONACOM’:tn OR  ‘DONAMIN’:tn OR ‘DONAROT’:tn OR ‘DONARTHRIL’:tn OR ‘DONASAN’:tn OR ‘DONASOL’:tn OR  ‘DONATHRIL’:tn OR ‘DUARTRON’:tn OR ‘ENERGOROT’:tn OR ‘FIDIFLEX’:tn OR ‘FLEXEA’:tn OR  ‘FLEXOVE’:tn OR ‘GIORAL’:tn OR ‘GISCOSAMINE’:tn OR ‘GISKOX 1250’:tn OR ‘GISKOX 625’:tn OR  ‘GLUCADOL’:tn OR ‘GLUCOMED’:tn OR ‘GLUCOSAMIL’:tn OR ‘GLUCOSAMIN’:tn OR ‘GLUCOSAMIN -’:tn  OR ‘GLUCOSAMIN’:tn OR ‘GLUCOSAMINA’:tn OR ‘GLUCOSAMINE’:tn OR ‘GLUCOSINE’:tn OR  ‘GLUFAN’:tn OR ‘GLUKONE’:tn OR ‘GLUKOZAMIN’:tn OR ‘GLUMINAL’:tn OR ‘GLUNIRO’:tn OR  ‘GLUSADON’:tn OR ‘GLUSAMIN’:tn OR ‘GLUSAMON’:tn OR ‘GLUSARTEL’:tn OR ‘GLUXINE’:tn OR  ‘GLYCEFORT’:tn OR ‘GOOL’:tn OR ‘GSCONDRO’:tn OR ‘HESPERCORBIN’:tn OR ‘KRUIDVAT  GLUCOSAMINE’:tn OR ‘LEDAMIN’:tn OR ‘LEKA’:tn OR ‘LIPATHREC’:tn OR ‘MATRIX’:tn OR ‘MINAREX’:tn  OR ‘MINEDON’:tn OR ‘NERITA’:tn OR ‘OSAFLEX’:tn OR ‘OSAFLEXAN’:tn OR ‘OSTEOEZE’:tn OR  ‘OSTEOLE’:tn OR ‘PAIN -FREE’:tn OR ‘PAINOFF’:tn OR ‘PERIGONA’:tn OR ‘PROBEVEN’:tn OR  ‘PROGONA’:tn OR ‘PROMINE’:tn OR ‘PRUBEVEN’:tn OR ‘RECOSINE’:tn OR ‘SACRUM’:tn OR  ‘SAMICLAR’:tn OR ‘SAMIN’:tn OR ‘SLIDEFLEX’:tn OR ‘STRUCTOFLEX’:tn OR ‘SUFIGAL’:tn OR  ‘TAREDON’:tn OR ‘TONICOR’:tn OR ‘VIARTRIL’:tn OR ‘VIARTRIL -S’:tn OR ‘VITACARE’:tn OR  ‘VOLTAFLEX’:tn OR ‘XANALIFE’:tn OR ‘XICIL’:tn OR ‘YOINTY’:tn OR ‘ZACOSTEO’:tn OR ‘ACENAM’:tn OR  ‘ARTHRO -AID’:tn OR ‘ARTRIL’:tn OR ‘COSAMINE’:tn OR ‘DINAFLEX’:tn OR ‘DOLENIO’:tn OR ‘DOLEX’:tn     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 178/368   OR ‘DONA’:tn OR ‘DOPPELHERZ’:tn OR ‘GLUCOREUMIN’:tn OR ‘GLUCOSAMINA’:tn OR ‘GLUCOSINE’:tn  OR ‘GUARDIAN GLUCOSAMINE’:tn OR ‘MATRIX’:tn OR ‘OSTEOEZE’:tn OR ‘PROGONA’:tn OR  ‘VARTALON’:tn OR ‘VIARTRIL’:tn OR ‘VIARTRIL -S’:tn OR ‘VOLTAFLEX’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   137.  Itraconazole   ‘ITRACONAZOLE’ OR ‘ORICONAZOLE’ OR ‘ITRAKONAZOL’ OR ‘ITRACONAZOL’ OR ‘ITRAKONAZOL’ OR  ‘ITRAKONAZOLS’ OR ‘ITRACONAZOLUM’ OR ‘ITRACONAZOLO’ OR ‘ITRAKONAZOL’ OR ‘ITRAKONAZOL’  OR ‘ITRACONAZOLE’ OR ‘ASSOSEPT -S’:tn OR ‘BROVICTON’:tn OR ‘CANADIOL’:tn OR ‘CLADOSOL’:tn  OR ‘CLADOSTAD’:tn OR ‘DERATIL’:tn OR ‘ETREL’:tn OR ‘FLUNOL’:tn OR ‘FUNGOFUNAL’:tn OR  ‘GENTAMICINA SOLFATO ITALFARMACO’:tn OR ‘HONGOSERIL’:tn OR ‘ILPEZ’:tn OR ‘INROZOL’:tn OR  ‘IPOZUMAX’:tn OR ‘ISOFLON’:tn OR ‘ITRABENE’:tn OR ‘ITRABEST’:tn OR ‘ITRAC 3’:tn OR ‘ITRACIC’:tn  OR ‘ITRACOL’:tn OR ‘ITRACONADOS’:tn OR ‘ITRACONAZOL -’:tn OR ‘ITRACONAZOLE’:tn OR  ‘ITRADERM’:tn OR ‘ITRAGEN’:tn OR ‘ITRAGERM’:tn OR ‘ITRANAZOLE’:tn OR ‘ITRANOLS’:tn OR  ‘ITRAPROTON’:tn OR ‘ITRASTAD’:tn OR ‘ITRAVIRON’:tn OR ‘ITRAX’:tn OR ‘ITRAZETA’:tn OR  ‘ITRAZOL’:tn OR ‘ITROKAST’:tn OR ‘LTRACONAZOL’:tn OR ‘MESMOR’:tn OR ‘MICOGAL’:tn OR  ‘MICRONAZOLE’:tn OR ‘MYTRA’:tn OR ‘NEO CANDIMYK’:tn OR ‘NIDDAZOL’:tn OR ‘OMICRAL’:tn OR  ‘ORUNGAL’:tn OR ‘PROKANAZOL’:tn OR ‘SEMPERA’:tn OR ‘SIROS’:tn OR ‘SOPRAZON 50MG/5ML’:tn OR  ‘SPORAL’:tn OR ‘SPORANOX’:tn OR ‘SPORANOX -PULSE’:tn OR ‘SPORIZOLE’:tn OR ‘SPOZOLE’:tn OR  ‘STERGINOX’:tn OR ‘TRAZER’:tn OR ‘TRIASPORIN’:tn OR ‘TRIOXAL’:tn OR ‘TRISPORAL’:tn OR  ‘FUNGONAX’:tn OR ‘ICONAZON’:tn OR ‘ITORAT’:tn OR ‘ITRAC 3’:tn OR ‘ITRACOL’:tn OR ‘ITRACON’:tn  OR ‘ITRACONAZOLE’:tn OR ‘ITRAREEL’:tn OR ‘ITRASPOR’:tn OR ‘ITRAZOLE’:tn OR ‘ITRIZOLE’:tn OR  ‘KANAZOL’:tn OR ‘ORUNGAL’:tn OR ‘SEMPERA’:tn OR ‘SPORAL’:tn OR ‘SPORANOX’:tn OR ‘SPORANOX - PULSE’:tn OR ‘TORACONA’:tn OR ‘TRIASPORIN’:tn OR ‘TRISPORAL’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 179/368   neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   138.  Captopril   ‘CAPTOPRIL’ OR ‘[(2S) -3-MERCAPTO -2-METHYLPROPIONYL] -L-PROLINE’ OR ‘KAPTOPRIL’ OR  ‘CAPTOPRIL’ OR ‘CAPTOPRIL’ OR ‘KAPTOPRYL’ OR ‘CAPTOPRIL’ OR ‘KAPTOPRILIO’ OR ‘CAPTOPRILUM’  OR ‘CAPTOPRIL’ OR ‘CAPTOPRIL’ OR ‘CAPTOPRIL’ OR ‘CAPTOPRIL’ OR ‘ACEOMEL’:tn OR  ‘ACEPROTIN’:tn OR ‘ACRODIN’:tn OR ‘ADOCOR’:tn OR ‘CAPCOR’:tn OR ‘CAPOTEN’:tn OR ‘CAPRITIN’:tn  OR ‘CAPTOR’:tn OR ‘CARENCIL’:tn OR ‘CONVERTAL’:tn OR ‘ECOPACE’:tn OR ‘EPSITRON’:tn OR  ‘HIPOTENSIL’:tn OR ‘HYPOTENSOR’:tn OR ‘LOPRIL’:tn OR ‘NORMOLOSE’:tn OR ‘PERTACILON’:tn OR  ‘PRODUCTSHORTNAMETST150’:tn OR ‘RILCAPTON’:tn OR ‘ROPRIL’:tn OR ‘TENSIOMIN’:tn OR  ‘TENSOSTAD’:tn OR ‘ACE -HEMMER’:tn OR ‘ACENORM’:tn OR ‘ACERIL’:tn OR ‘ACTOPRIL’:tn OR ‘ADCO - CAPTOPRIL’:tn OR ‘ANGIOPRIL’:tn OR ‘CAPTO’:tn OR ‘APOPRIL’:tn OR ‘CABUDAN’:tn OR ‘CAPACE’:tn  OR ‘CAPOCARD’:tn OR ‘CAPOTEN’:tn OR ‘CAPOTENA’:tn OR ‘CAPTO’:tn OR ‘CAPTOPRIL’:tn OR  ‘CAPTORIL -R’:tn OR ‘CAPTOSOL’:tn OR ‘CAPTOTEC’:tn OR ‘CONVERTAL’:tn OR ‘DEXACAP’:tn OR  ‘DOWPRIL’:tn OR ‘HIPERTIL’:tn OR ‘HYPOTENSOR’:tn OR ‘KAPRIL’:tn OR ‘LOPIRIN’:tn OR ‘LOPRIL’:tn  OR ‘MAXIPRIL’:tn OR ‘MEREPRINE’:tn OR ‘TENSIOMIN’:tn OR ‘TENSOBON’:tn OR ‘TENSOPREL’:tn OR  ‘TENSOPRIL’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   139.  Codeine   ‘CODEINE’ OR ‘CODEINUM’ OR ‘KODEINA’ OR ‘CODEÍNA’ OR ‘METHYLMORPHINE’ OR ‘MORPHINE  METHYL ETHER’ OR ‘CODEÏNE’ OR ‘CODÉINE’ OR ‘KODEIN’ OR ‘BISOLTUS’:tn OR ‘BROMOCODEINA’:tn  OR ‘BROMOPHAR’:tn OR ‘BRONCHICUM’:tn OR ‘BRONCHO -PECTORALIS’:tn OR ‘BRONCHOSEDAL  CODEINE’:tn OR ‘CARDIAZOL -PARACODINA’:tn OR ‘CARE CODEINE SUGAR FREE THORNTON &  ROSS’:tn OR ‘CODANT’:tn OR ‘CODEDRILL SANS SUCRE’:tn OR ‘CODEIN SIRUP MIT EUCALYPTUS  GESCHMACK MEDGENIX’:tn OR ‘CODEIN SLOVAKOFARMA’:tn OR ‘CODEINI PHOSPHATIS ALKALOID’:tn  OR ‘CODEINOFORM’:tn OR ‘CODEINSAFT -CT’:tn OR ‘CODEINTROPFEN’:tn OR ‘CODEINĂ FOSFAT’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 180/368   ‘CODERIT N’:tn OR ‘CODESAN’:tn OR ‘CODICAPS SAFT GEGEN REIZHUSTEN’:tn OR ‘CODICOMPREN’:tn  OR ‘CODIDOL’:tn OR ‘CODINEX’:tn OR ‘CODIPERTUSSIN’:tn OR ‘CODIPRONT’:tn OR  ‘CODOCALYPTOL’:tn OR ‘DEHACE’:tn OR ‘DF118’:tn OR ‘DHC’:tn OR ‘DICODIN LP’:tn OR  ‘DIHYDROCODEINE’:tn OR ‘DINACODE’:tn OR ‘ERIGON’:tn OR ‘EUCALYPTINE LE BRUN’:tn OR  ‘EUCALYTUX’:tn OR ‘EUPHON’:tn OR ‘FARMACOD’:tn OR ‘FLUDAN CODEINA’:tn OR ‘GALCODINE’:tn OR  ‘GLOTTYL’:tn OR ‘HERBAPINI’:tn OR ‘HISTAVERIN’:tn OR ‘HYDROCODIN’:tn OR ‘INALPIN’:tn OR  ‘KATAPEKT’:tn OR ‘KODAMID’:tn OR ‘KODEIN’:tn OR ‘KODEINIJEV  FOSFAT ALKALOID -INT’:tn OR  ‘KODEINSIRUP MIT EUKALYPTOLGESCHMACK CONFORMA’:tn OR ‘LASA’:tn OR ‘MELROSUM’:tn OR  ‘MYPAID’:tn OR ‘NEO -CODION’:tn OR ‘NEOAZARINA’:tn OR ‘NOTUSIN’:tn OR ‘OPTIPECT FORTE’:tn OR  ‘PADERYL’:tn OR ‘PAPAVERETUM’:tn OR ‘PARACODIN’:tn OR ‘PARACODINA’:tn OR ‘PARACODINE’:tn OR  ‘PAZBRONQUIAL’:tn OR ‘PLEUMOLYSIN’:tn OR ‘PNEUMOGENOL’:tn OR ‘POLERY ADULTS’:tn OR ‘PULMO  BAILLY’:tn OR ‘PULMOSERUM, SOLUTION BUVABLE’:tn OR ‘RECIPECT’:tn OR ‘RESYL’:tn OR ‘SIROP DE  CODÉINE AVEC GOÛT DEUCALYPTOL MEDGENIX’:tn OR ‘SIROP À LA CODÉINE AU GOÛT EUCALYPTOL  CONFORMA’:tn OR ‘SIRUPUS CODEIN I CONFORMA’:tn OR ‘SIRUPUS PINI ’:tn OR ‘SPASMOFEN’:tn OR  ‘SUPPOSITORIUM ANALGETICUM FORTE’:tn OR ‘SYROP SOSNOWY ZŁOŻONY’:tn OR ‘TERPIN AND  CODEINE LINCTUS’:tn OR ‘THIOCODIN’:tn OR ‘THIOPECTOL ADULTES’:tn OR ‘THORNTON & ROSS  CODEINE PHOSPHATE 25MG/5ML ORAL SOLUTION’:tn OR ‘TIAMON MONO’:tn OR ‘TOSEINA’:tn OR  ‘TOSEÍNA’:tn OR ‘TOULARYNX CODEINE’:tn OR ‘TOUX -SAN CODÉINE SANS SUCRE’:tn OR ‘TRYASOL  CODEIN FORTE’:tn OR ‘TUSOCALM’:tn OR ‘TUSSIPAX’:tn OR ‘TUSSORET NACHT’:tn OR ‘TUSSORET  TAG’:tn OR ‘ACTACODE’:tn OR ‘CODEIN’:tn OR ‘CODEIN KNOLL’:tn OR ‘CODEINE’:tn OR  ‘CODEINEFOSFAAT’:tn OR ‘CODEISAN’:tn OR ‘CODEÏNE HCL ‘:tn OR ‘CODEÏNEFOSFAAT’:tn OR  ‘CODICONTIN’:tn OR ‘CODIPRONT’:tn OR ‘DF118’:tn OR ‘DHC’:tn OR ‘DIHYDROCODEINE’:tn OR  ‘HISTAVERIN’:tn OR ‘HUSCOBRON’:tn OR ‘HYDROCODIN’:tn OR ‘KODAMID’:tn OR ‘NEO -CODION’:tn  OR ‘OMNOPON’:tn OR ‘PANALGESIC’:tn OR ‘PARACODIN’:tn OR ‘PARACODINE’:tn OR ‘PECTORAL’:tn  OR ‘PMS -CODEINE’:tn OR ‘RATIO -CODEINE’:tn OR ‘RESYL PLUS’:tn OR ‘RIKODEINE’:tn OR  ‘SALIPARA’:tn OR ‘SYNALGOS’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   140.  Fluvastatin   ‘FLUVASTATIN’ OR ‘FLUVASTATINA’ OR ‘FLUVASTATINUM’ OR ‘FLUVASTATINE’ OR ‘FLUVASTATINA’ OR  ‘CANEF’:tn OR ‘CARDIOL’:tn OR ‘COLESTATIN’:tn OR ‘CRANOC’:tn OR ‘DIGARIL’:tn OR ‘DORISIN’:tn  OR ‘EMTHEXATE’:tn OR ‘EVADANIN’:tn OR ‘FLAVICEN’:tn OR ‘FLAVUSTENOL’:tn OR ‘FLOVELLA’:tn OR  ‘FLUVACTALIN’:tn OR ‘FLUVAMYL’:tn OR ‘FLUVARATIO’:tn OR ‘FLUVASCOL’:tn OR ‘FLUVASTADIG’:tn     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 181/368   OR ‘FLUVASTAHAM’:tn OR ‘FLUVASTAMIL’:tn OR ‘FLUVASTASOF’:tn OR ‘FLUVASTATIN’:tn OR  ‘FLUVASTATIN -’:tn OR ‘FLUVASTATINE’:tn OR ‘FLUVASTIESTAD’:tn OR ‘FLUVISTAD’:tn OR ‘FLUVOR’:tn  OR ‘FRACTAL’:tn OR ‘LAVESTEN’:tn OR ‘LESCOL’:tn OR ‘LIPAXAN’:tn OR ‘LIPOSIT’:tn OR ‘LIPOSIT  PROLIB’:tn OR ‘LOCOL’:tn OR ‘LUVASTIX’:tn OR ‘LUVINSTA’:tn OR ‘MITHESTAN’:tn OR ‘PINMACTIL’:tn  OR ‘SINFATIX’:tn OR ‘STADIFLUVEN’:tn OR ‘STATEASE’:tn OR ‘STAVATIN’:tn OR ‘STEFLUVIN’:tn OR  ‘STIPATIN’:tn OR ‘FLUTIN’:tn OR ‘VADITON’:tn OR ‘VADITON PROLIB’:tn OR ‘VASCOL’:tn OR  ‘VUYATOR’:tn OR ‘ZYFLUTIN’:tn OR ‘CANEF’:tn OR ‘FLUVASTATINE’:tn OR ‘FRACTAL’:tn OR ‘LESCOL’:tn  OR ‘LOCHOL’:tn OR ‘LOCOL’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   141.  Meropenem   ‘MEROPENEM’ OR ‘MEROPENEMUM’ OR ‘ MEROPENEMUM’ OR ‘MÉROPÉNEM’ OR ‘MEROPENEMU’ OR  ‘AGENOREM’:tn OR ‘ARCHIFAR’:tn OR ‘CARBENEM’:tn OR ‘HOMEPEN’:tn OR ‘LODITER’:tn OR  ‘MEDOPENEM’:tn OR ‘MENOINFEX’:tn OR ‘MEPENEX’:tn OR ‘MERAPEM’:tn OR ‘MERINFEC’:tn OR  ‘MEROBACT’:tn OR ‘MEROPENAM’:tn OR ‘MEROPENEM’:tn OR ‘MEROPONIA’:tn OR ‘MEROSPIRA’:tn OR  ‘MEROZAN’:tn OR ‘NABLERAN’:tn OR ‘PENEMER’:tn OR ‘RONEPEM’:tn OR ‘SANTAMER’:tn OR  ‘PENEM’:tn OR ‘MEPEM’:tn OR ‘MERONEM’:tn OR ‘MEROPEN’:tn OR ‘MEROPENEM’:tn OR ‘MERREM’:tn  OR ‘OPTINEM’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR  'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 182/368   142.  Docetaxel   ‘DOCETAXEL’ OR ‘DOSETAKSOLI’ OR ‘DOCETAKSEL’ OR ‘DOCETAKSEL’ OR ‘DOCETAKSEL’ OR  ‘DOCETAXEL’ OR  ‘DOCETAKSELS’ OR ‘DOCETAKSELIS’ OR ‘DOCETAXELUM’ OR ‘DOCETAXEL’ OR  ‘DOCETAXELI’ OR ‘DOCETAKSELA’ OR ‘DOCEITAICÉIL’ OR ‘DOCÉTAXEL’ OR ‘DOS ETAKSELI’ OR  ‘DOTSETAKSEEL’ OR ‘BAGLYCACON’:tn OR ‘BENDADOCEL’:tn OR ‘CAMITOTIC’:tn OR ‘DEMOTAXEL’:tn  OR ‘DOCE’:tn OR ‘DOCEFIM’:tn OR ‘DOCEFON’:tn OR ‘DOCEL’:tn OR ‘DOCETAKSEL’:tn OR  ‘DOCETAX’:tn OR ‘DOCETAXAL’:tn OR ‘DOCETAXEL’:tn OR ‘DOCETAXIN’:tn OR ‘DOCETILAN’:tn OR  ‘DOCÉTAXEL’:tn OR ‘DOTAXEL’:tn OR ‘DOXEN’:tn OR ‘DROBANOS’:tn OR ‘EDOXEL’:tn OR  ‘EUROTERE’:tn OR ‘FINAXEL’:tn OR ‘ONKOTAXEL’:tn OR ‘QVIDADOTAX’:tn OR ‘RIBODOCEL’:tn OR  ‘TAXCEUS’:tn OR ‘TAXEGIS’:tn OR ‘TAXODOCE’:tn OR ‘TAXOTAN’:tn OR ‘TAXOTERE’:tn OR  ‘TAXOVINA’:tn OR ‘DOCEL’:tn OR ‘TOLNEXA’:tn OR ‘ZAKOTAX’:tn OR ‘DOCETAX’:tn OR ‘DOCETAXEL’:tn  OR ‘DOCETERE’:tn OR ‘ONCOTAXEL’:tn OR ‘ONE -TAXOTERE’:tn OR ‘TADOCEL’:tn OR ‘TAXOTERE’:tn  AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR  misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp  OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   143.  Allopurinol   ‘ALLOPURINOL’ OR ‘ALLOPURINOLUM’ OR ‘AL LOPURINOLO’ OR ‘ALOPURINOL’ OR ‘ALLOPURINOLI’ OR  ‘ACEPURIN’:tn OR ‘ALLO -CT’:tn OR ‘ ALLONOL’:tn OR ‘ALLOPUR’:tn OR  ‘ALLOSTAD’:tn OR ‘ALLUPOL’:tn  OR ‘ALLURIT’:tn OR ‘ALODAGRA’:tn OR ‘ALOPRON’:tn OR ‘ALOPUR’:tn OR ‘ALLOPURINOL’:tn OR  ‘APURIN’:tn OR ‘CAPLENAL’:tn OR ‘COSURIC’:tn OR ‘GICHTEX’:tn OR ‘JENAPURINOL’:tn OR  ‘MILURIT’:tn OR ‘PURINOL’:tn OR ‘SIDEFARMA’:tn OR ‘STRADUMEL’:tn OR ‘TIPURIC’:tn OR  ‘UROSIN’:tn OR ‘URTICO’:tn OR ‘VIASPAN’:tn OR ‘ZURIM’:tn OR ‘ZYLAPOUR’:tn OR ‘ZYLORIC’:tn OR  ‘AIDEITO’:tn OR ‘ALLO’:tn OR ‘ALLONOL’:tn OR ‘ALLOPRIN’:tn OR ‘ALLOPUR’:tn OR ‘ALLOPURIN  VON’:tn OR ‘ALLOPURINOL’:tn OR ‘ALLORIC’:tn OR ‘ALLORIL’:tn OR ‘ALLORIN’:tn OR ‘ALLOSIG’:tn OR  ‘ALLOSTAD’:tn OR ‘ALLOZYM’:tn OR ‘ALLUPOL’:tn OR ‘ALOPRIM’:tn OR ‘ALOPUR’:tn OR  ‘ALOPURINOL’:tn OR ‘ALOSITOL’:tn OR ‘ANOPROLIN’:tn OR ‘ANZIEF’:tn OR ‘ALLOPURINOL’:tn OR  ‘APURIN’:tn OR ‘APUROL’:tn OR ‘ARYTHMET’:tn OR ‘ATISURIL ALOPURINOL’:tn OR ‘CELLIDRIN’:tn OR  ‘HARPAGIN’:tn OR ‘KETOBUN’:tn OR ‘MASATON’:tn OR ‘MEPHANOL’:tn OR ‘MILURIT’:tn OR  ‘MINIPLANOR’:tn OR ‘NEUFAN’:tn OR ‘NOVO -PUROL’:tn OR ‘PRODEC’:tn OR ‘PROGOUT’:tn OR  ‘PURICOS’:tn OR ‘PURINOL’:tn OR ‘RIBALL’:tn OR ‘SALOBEL’:tn OR ‘TAKANARUMIN’:tn OR ‘URIC’:tn  OR ‘URICA’:tn OR ‘URICODUE’:tn OR ‘URICONORM’:tn OR ‘UROSIN’:tn OR ‘VIASPAN’:tn OR ‘ZYLOL’:tn  OR ‘ZYLOPRIM’:tn OR ‘ZYLORIC’:tn OR ‘ÜRIKOLIZ’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 183/368   overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   144.  Domperidone   ‘DOMPERIDONE’ OR ‘DOMPÉRIDONE’ OR ‘DOMPERIDONA’ OR ‘5 -CHLORO -1-{1-[3-(2- OXOBENZIMIDAZOLIN -1-YL)PROPYL] -4-PIPERIDYL}BENZIMIDAZOLIN -2-ONE’ OR ‘DOMPERIDON’ OR  ‘DOMPERIDONUM’ OR ‘DOMPERIDONA’ OR ‘DOMPERIDONUM’ OR ‘DOMPERIDONE’ OR ‘DOMPÉRIDONE’  OR ‘DOMPERIDONIA’ OR ‘DOMPERIDONA’ OR ‘DOMPERIDONUM’ OR ‘BIPERIDYSFLASH’:tn OR  ‘CILROTON’:tn OR ‘CINET’:tn OR ‘COMPRIMÉ PELLICULÉ’:tn OR ‘COSTI’:tn OR ‘DIGESTIVO  GIULIANI’:tn OR ‘DISMOTIL’:tn OR ‘DOMERID’:tn OR ‘DOMPERIDON’:tn OR ‘DOMPERIDONE’:tn OR  ‘GERDI’:tn OR ‘IBIDEL’:tn OR ‘KRUIDVAT DOMPERIDON 10 MG’:tn OR ‘MOTILIUM’:tn OR  ‘NAUZELÍN’:tn OR ‘NEOPERIDYS’:tn OR ‘OROPERIDYS’:tn OR ‘PERIDON’:tn OR ‘PERIDYS’:tn OR  ‘PERMOTIL’:tn OR ‘PYNINAT’:tn OR ‘RAXAR’:tn OR ‘REMOTIL’:tn OR ‘TAMETIL’:tn OR ‘ZILIUM’:tn OR  ‘DOMPERIDONE’:tn OR ‘CINET’:tn OR ‘DOMPEDON’:tn OR ‘DOMPER’:tn OR ‘DOMPERIDON’:tn OR  ‘DOMPERIDONE’:tn OR ‘DOMPERIN’:tn OR ‘DOMPERIX’:tn OR ‘DOMSTAL’:tn OR ‘DORIDONE’:tn OR  ‘EMEX’:tn OR ‘EUCITON’:tn OR ‘FORIMEZIN’:tn OR ‘HADODOLIN’:tn OR ‘HARMETONE’:tn OR  ‘MIONAZELIN’:tn OR ‘MIRAX’:tn OR ‘MOLAX’:tn OR ‘MOTILIN’:tn OR ‘MOTILIUM’:tn OR ‘MOTILUM’:tn  OR ‘MOTLIUM’:tn OR ‘NASIROBIN’:tn OR ‘NAUZELIN’:tn OR ‘PERIDAL’:tn OR ‘PERIDON’:tn OR  ‘PERIDYS’:tn OR ‘PERIZELIN’:tn OR ‘PERORIC’:tn OR ‘RAN -DOMPERIDONE’:tn OR ‘RATIO - DOMPERIDONE’:tn OR ‘RAXAR’:tn OR ‘VOMETA’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 184/368   OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   145.  Mometasone   ‘MOMETASONE’ OR ‘MOMETASONA’ OR ‘MOMETAZONAS’ OR ‘M OMETASONUM’ OR ‘MOMÉTASONE’ OR  ‘ALTOSONE’:tn OR ‘APHIAHSONE’:tn OR ‘APHIASONE’:tn OR ‘ASMANEX’:tn OR ‘ATOZON’:tn OR  ‘AUREOX’:tn OR ‘BIOELEMENTA’:tn OR ‘BLOCTIMO’:tn OR ‘BRESO’:tn OR ‘BRUSONEX’:tn OR  ‘DEMOSON’:tn OR ‘DESDEK’:tn OR ‘E L O C O N’:tn OR ‘ECURAL’:tn OR ‘EDELAN’:tn OR ‘ELICA’:tn OR  ‘ELISOX’:tn OR ‘ELITASONE’:tn OR ‘ELOCOM’:tn OR ‘ELOCON’:tn OR ‘ELOSONE’:tn OR ‘EZTOM’:tn OR  ‘FIRONEL’:tn OR ‘FLONEZ’:tn OR ‘FRONDAVA’:tn OR ‘GUIMFIL’:tn OR ‘IVOXEL’:tn OR ‘KALMENTE’:tn  OR ‘KONEX’:tn OR ‘LOGREN’:tn OR ‘LOROME’:tn OR ‘MEDE’:tn OR ‘MELOCORT’:tn OR ‘METMIN’:tn OR  ‘MIDERMIN’:tn OR ‘MIPASU’:tn OR ‘MOFUDER’:tn OR ‘MOFUR’:tn OR ‘MOMARID’:tn OR ‘MOMECORT’:tn  OR ‘MOMECUTAN’:tn OR ‘MOMEDERM’:tn OR ‘MOMEGALEN’:tn OR ‘MOMEGEN’:tn OR ‘MOMERID’:tn OR  ‘MOMESONEX’:tn OR ‘MOMESPIR’:tn OR ‘MOMESTER’:tn OR ‘MOMETA’:tn OR ‘MOMETASON’:tn OR  ‘MOMETASONE’:tn OR ‘MOMETASONFUROAAT’:tn OR ‘MOMETASONFUROAT’:tn OR  ‘MOMETASONFURONAT’:tn OR ‘MOMETASONIFUROAATTI’:tn OR ‘MOMETAZON ‘:tn OR ‘MOMETAZONA  ATB’:tn OR ‘MOMETAZONFUROAT’:tn OR ‘MOMMOX’:tn OR ‘MONOVO’:tn OR ‘MOSAT’:tn OR  ‘MOVESAN’:tn OR ‘MUNDOSON’:tn OR ‘NASAMET’:tn OR ‘NASOMET’:tn OR ‘NASOMETIN’:tn OR  ‘NASONEX’:tn OR ‘NASOTASONE’:tn OR ‘NETONOX’:tn OR ‘OMERID’:tn OR ‘OVISON’:tn OR  ‘OVIXAN’:tn OR ‘PHARMECORT’:tn OR ‘PRONASAL’:tn OR ‘RINELON’:tn OR ‘RINOMETASONE’:tn OR  ‘SEBANEZ’:tn OR ‘SONALOX’:tn OR ‘TEMON’:tn OR ‘YPEROD’:tn OR ‘MOMETASONE’:tn OR  ‘ASMANEX’:tn OR ‘ELECON’:tn OR ‘ELICA’:tn OR ‘ELOCOM’:tn OR ‘ELOCON’:tn OR ‘ELOMET’:tn OR  ‘ELOVENT’:tn OR ‘ELOX’:tn OR ‘FULMETA’:tn OR ‘KONEX’:tn OR ‘MOMETASONE’:tn OR ‘MONOVO’:tn OR  ‘NASOMET’:tn OR ‘NASONEX’:tn OR ‘NOVASONE’:tn OR ‘OXIMAX’:tn OR ‘RINELON’:tn OR ‘TOPISON’:tn  OR ‘UNICLAR’:tn OR ‘ZENHALE’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   146.  Mycophenolic Acid   ‘MYCOPHENOLIC ACID’ OR ‘ACIDE MYCOPHÉNOLIQUE’ OR ‘MYCOPHENOLATE’ OR ‘ACIDUM  MYCOPHENOLICUM’ OR ‘ACIDE MYCOPHÉNOLIQUE’ OR ‘ÁCIDO MICOFENÓLICO’ OR ‘MYGREF’:tn OR  ‘MYKOFENOLAT’:tn OR ‘MYKOFENOLATMOFETI’:tn OR ‘MYKOFENOLSYRA’:tn OR ‘MYKOFENOLSYRE’:tn  OR ‘MYKOFENOLÁT MOFETIL’:tn OR ‘RIGENOL’:tn OR ‘SUPREPHEN’:tn OR ‘TRIXIN’:tn OR ‘CELLCEPT’:tn     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 185/368   OR ‘MMF’:tn OR ‘MYCOCELL’:tn OR ‘MYCOFENOLAAT MOFETIL’:tn OR ‘MYCOPHENOLIC ACID’:tn OR  ‘MYFORTIC’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   147.  Amiodarone   ‘AMIODARONE’ OR ‘AMIODARONUM’ OR ‘AMIODARONA’ OR ‘AMIODARONHYDROCHLORID ALTERNOVA’  OR ‘AMIODARONIJEV KLORID’ OR ‘AMIODARONĂ’ OR ‘AMIODASAN’ OR ‘AMIODURA’ OR  ‘AMIOGAMMA’:tn OR ‘AMIOHEXAL’:tn OR ‘AMIOKORDIN’:tn OR ‘ANGORON’:tn OR ‘CARDILOR’:tn OR  ‘CORBIONAX’:tn OR ‘CORDAN’:tn OR ‘CORDAREX’:tn OR ‘CORDARONE’:tn OR ‘DARMIL’:tn OR  ‘INJECTION MINIJET’:tn OR ‘MIODRONE’:tn OR ‘OPACORDEN’:tn OR ‘RIVODARON’:tn OR  ‘SEDACORON’:tn OR ‘SEDACORON’:tn OR ‘TRANGOREX’:tn OR ‘AMIDARON’:tn OR ‘AMIOBAL’:tn OR  ‘AMIODACORE’:tn OR ‘AMIODAR’:tn OR ‘AMIODARON’:tn OR ‘AMIODARONE’:tn OR ‘AMIOKORDIN’:tn  OR ‘AMIOTACH’:tn OR ‘ANCARON’:tn OR ‘ANCORON’:tn OR ‘AMIODARONE’:tn OR ‘ARATAC’:tn OR  ‘ATLANSIL’:tn OR ‘BRAXAN’:tn OR ‘COR MIO’:tn OR ‘CORDAN’:tn OR ‘CORDAREX’:tn OR  ‘CORDARONE’:tn OR ‘ESCODARON’:tn OR ‘HEXARONE’:tn OR ‘MIODARON’:tn OR ‘NEXTERONE’:tn OR  ‘PACERONE’:tn OR ‘PROCOR (AMIODARONE)’:tn OR ‘RIVA -AMIODARONE’:tn OR ‘SEDACORON’:tn OR  ‘AMIODARONE’:tn OR ‘TRANGOREX’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 186/368   148.  Cyanocobalamin   ‘CYANOCOBALAMIN’ OR ‘CYANOKOBALAMIN’ OR ‘KYANOKOBALAMÍN’ OR ‘CIANCOBALAMINĂ’ OR  ‘CIANOCOBALAMINA’ OR ‘CIANOCOBALAMINA’ OR ‘CYJANOKOBALAMINA’ OR ‘CYANOKOBALAMIN’ OR  ‘CYANOCOBALAMINE’ OR ‘CIANOKOBALAMĪNS’ OR ‘CYANOCOBALAMINUM’ OR ‘CIANOCOBALAMINA’ OR  ‘CYANOCOBALAMÍN’ OR ‘CIANOKOBALAMIN’ OR ‘CYANOCOBALAMINE’ OR ‘SYANOKOBALAMIINI’ OR  ‘CIANOCOBALAMINA’ OR ‘CYANOCOBALAMIN’ OR ‘CYANOCOBALAMIN’ OR ‘CYANOCOBALAMINUM’ OR  ‘AKTIFERRIN’:tn OR ‘ARCA -BE’:tn OR ‘ATHEROVIT’:tn OR ‘B -KOMPLEX’:tn OR ‘B12 ANCHORMAN’:tn OR  ‘BEFACT FORTE’:tn OR ‘BEHEPAN’:tn OR ‘BETOLVEX’:tn OR ‘BETOLVIDON’:tn OR ‘BETRIMINE’:tn OR  ‘BEVIPLEX COMP’:tn OR ‘BEVIT FORTE’:tn OR ‘BICOMPLEX’:tn OR ‘BITAMINA’:tn OR ‘BUER  LECITHIN’:tn OR ‘CALCIO DOBETIN’:tn OR ‘CIANOKOBALAMINAS’:tn OR ‘CROMATONBIC B12’:tn OR  ‘CYTACON’:tn OR ‘CYTAMEN’:tn OR ‘CYTOBION’:tn OR ‘DAGRAVIT B COMPLEX’:tn OR ‘DOBETIN’:tn OR  ‘DODEPAR’:tn OR ‘DYNAMIN’:tn OR ‘ECOVITAMINE B12’:tn OR ‘EMOPON’:tn OR ‘EPARMEFOLIN’:tn OR  ‘EVATON Β12’:tn OR ‘EVATON -T’:tn OR ‘FEMIN BEAUTY KUR’:tn OR ‘FERRO -FOLGAMMA’:tn OR  ‘FOLGAMMA’:tn OR ‘FOLIDEX B12’:tn OR ‘FOLYOBEN’:tn OR ‘HEPAR COMPOSITUM N’:tn OR ‘HEPATOS  B 12’:tn OR ‘HIDROXIL B1 -B6-B12’:tn OR ‘ISOPTO B12’:tn OR ‘KATABIOS’:tn OR ‘KETOVITE  LIQUID’:tn OR ‘LOPHAKOMP -B12’:tn OR ‘MEDIVITAN’:tn OR ‘MEDYN’:tn OR ‘MEMOVIT B12’:tn OR  ‘MILGAMMA’:tn OR ‘MIONEVRASI’:tn OR ‘NATIFAR’:tn OR ‘NATIMED’:tn OR ‘NEO CROMATON  BICOMPLESSO 10000’:tn OR ‘NEOBEFOL’:tn OR ‘NEOIODARSOLO’:tn OR ‘NERVOBION’:tn OR  ‘NERVOBIÓN’:tn OR ‘NEURABEN’:tn OR ‘NEUROBENE’:tn OR ‘NEUROBEX’:tn OR ‘NEUROBION’:tn OR  ‘NEUROMADE’:tn OR ‘NEUROMAX’:tn OR ‘NEUROMERCK’:tn OR ‘NEUROMULTIVIT’:tn OR  ‘NEURORUBINE’:tn OR ‘NEUROVIT’:tn OR ‘NEUROVITA’:tn OR ‘PANTOBAMIN’:tn OR ‘PERMADOZE’:tn  OR ‘PLIBEX’:tn OR ‘PRONERV’:tn OR ‘SIMEPAR’:tn OR ‘SOLIVITO N’:tn OR ‘SOLUVIT’:tn OR  ‘SOPALAMIN -3Bk’:tn OR ‘SUPLEFOL’:tn OR ‘TONOCIAN’:tn OR ‘TREBE’:tn OR ‘TRIBVIT’:tn OR  ‘TRIMETABOL’:tn OR ‘TRINEURIN’:tn OR ‘TRINEVRINA B6’:tn OR ‘TRIOBE’:tn OR ‘VIRAFER’:tn OR ‘VITA  BUERLECITHIN’:tn OR ‘VITAMIN B 12’:tn OR ‘VITAMINA B12’:tn OR ‘VITAMINE B12’:tn OR ‘VITAMINUM  B12’:tn OR ‘VITASPRINT B12’:tn OR ‘YODUK COMPLEX’:tn OR ‘B COMPLEX’:tn OR ‘BEDODEKA’:tn OR  ‘BEHEPAN’:tn OR ‘BENEXOL’:tn OR ‘BETOLVEX’:tn OR ‘CAVAN -X’:tn OR ‘COBALUM’:tn OR  ‘CYANOCOBALAMINE’:tn OR ‘CYTAMEN’:tn OR ‘DAIVITAMIX’:tn OR ‘DIAINAMIX’:tn OR ‘DODEX’:tn OR  ‘DUOVIT’:tn OR ‘ENZYPLEX’:tn OR ‘FABB’:tn OR ‘FERREX’:tn OR ‘FERRO -FOLGAMMA’:tn OR  ‘FOLASTIN’:tn OR ‘FOLBEE’:tn OR ‘FOLBIC’:tn OR ‘FOLCAPS’:tn OR ‘FOLGAMMA’:tn OR ‘FOLGARD’:tn  OR ‘FOLI -DOCE’:tn OR ‘FOLTABS’:tn OR ‘FOLTX’:tn OR ‘HEPAGRISEVIT’:tn OR ‘MILGAMMA’:tn OR  ‘MULTIVIT’:tn OR ‘NASCOBAL’:tn OR ‘NATIFAR’:tn OR ‘NERVOBION’:tn OR ‘NEURO’:tn OR  ‘NEUROBENE’:tn OR ‘NEUROBION’:tn OR ‘NEUROMIN’:tn OR ‘NEURORUBIN’:tn OR ‘NEURORUBINE’:tn  OR ‘PHARCOBA’:tn OR ‘POLYNERV’:tn OR ‘PRINCI -B FORT’:tn OR ‘RUBRAMIN’:tn OR ‘SANCOBA’:tn OR  ‘SHOT -B’:tn OR ‘SOFTEAR’:tn OR ‘SOLUVIT’:tn OR ‘TENAVIT’:tn OR ‘TIAMINAL B12 TRIVALENTE’:tn OR  ‘TRIBEDOCE’:tn OR ‘TRIBEMIN’:tn OR ‘TRIMETABOL’:tn OR ‘TRIOBE’:tn OR ‘TRIPLE -B’:tn OR ‘VIRT - VITE’:tn OR ‘VITA -B’:tn OR ‘VITABION’:tn OR ‘VITACOBAL’:tn OR ‘VITAMEDIN’:tn OR ‘VITARUBIN’:tn  OR ‘VITASPRINT B12’:tn OR ‘VITRON’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 187/368   hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   149.  Epirubicin   ‘EPIRUBICIN’ OR ‘EPIRRUBICINA’ OR ‘EPIRUBICINUM’ OR ‘ÉPIRUBICINE’ OR ‘EPIRUBICINA’ OR  ‘BENDAEPI’:tn OR ‘BERUBICIN’:tn OR ‘BW -PICIN’:tn OR ‘CENEBIR’:tn OR ‘CIAZIL’:tn OR ‘ECCLEPIA’:tn  OR ‘EPI -CELL’:tn OR ‘EPI -GRY’:tn OR ‘EPI -NC’:tn OR ‘EPIBICIN’:tn OR ‘EPIBRA’:tn OR ‘EPIMEDAC’:tn  OR ‘EPIRUB’:tn OR ‘EPIRUBICIN’:tn OR ‘EPIRUBICINEHYDROCHLORIDE’:tn OR  ‘EPIRUBICINHYDROCHLORID’:tn OR ‘EPIRUBICINIJEV KLORID’:tn OR ‘EPIRUBICINĂ’:tn OR  ‘EPISINDAN’:tn OR ‘EPITAVIS’:tn OR ‘ERACIN’:tn OR ‘EURORUBICIN’:tn OR ‘FARMORUBICIN’:tn OR  ‘FARMORUBICINA’:tn OR ‘FARMORUBICINE’:tn OR ‘MEGARUBICIN’:tn OR ‘PHARMORUBICIN’:tn OR  ‘RIBOEPI’:tn OR ‘RUBICINASOL’:tn OR ‘RUBIPROL’:tn OR ‘ELLENCE’:tn OR ‘EPI -CELL’:tn OR ‘EPILEM’:tn  OR ‘EPIRUBICIN’:tn OR ‘EPIRUBICINA’:tn OR ‘FARMORUBICIN’:tn OR ‘FARMORUBICINA’:tn OR  ‘FARMORUBICINE’:tn OR ‘PHARMORUBICIN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   150.  Galantamine   ‘GALANTAMINE’ OR ‘GALANTAMINUM’ OR ‘GALANTAMINE’ OR ‘GALANTAMINA’ OR ‘ACUMOR’ OR  ‘ALENZO’ OR ‘BERGAL’ OR ‘CONSION’ OR ‘ELMINO’ OR ‘GALABAR’ OR ‘GALAMIR’ OR ‘GALANTAGAMMA’  OR ‘GALANTAMIN’ OR ‘GALANTAMINE’ OR ‘GALANTAMINĂ ZENTIVA’ OR ‘GALANTAX’:tn OR  ‘GALANTEX’:tn OR ‘GALANTHEN’:tn OR ‘GALANYL’:tn OR ‘GALEMA’:tn OR ‘GALIDUREL’:tn OR  ‘GALNORA’:tn OR ‘GALSYA’:tn OR ‘GAMYL’:tn OR ‘GATALIN’:tn OR ‘GAZYLAN’:tn OR ‘GIRLAMEN’:tn OR  ‘LOTPROSIN’:tn OR ‘LUVENTA’:tn OR ‘MARGAL’:tn OR ‘MASPAREN’:tn OR ‘NATAGAL’:tn OR  ‘NIVALIN’:tn OR ‘REMINYL’:tn OR ‘SPEGAL’:tn OR ‘LIN’:tn OR ‘VERTUSAL’:tn OR ‘ZENTAN’:tn OR  ‘ZOROFLOG’:tn OR ‘GALANYL’:tn OR ‘NIVALIN’:tn OR ‘RAZADYNE’:tn OR ‘REMINYL’:tn AND ('adverse  drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR  'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  Commerci al in Confidence      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 188/368   pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   151.  Valaciclovir   ‘VALACICLOVIR’ OR ‘L -VALINE ESTER WITH 9 -((2-HYDROXYETHOXY)METHYL)GUANINE’ OR  ‘WALACYKLOWIR’ OR ‘VALACICLOVIRUM’ OR ‘VALACICLOVIR’ OR ‘VALACICLOVIR’ OR  ‘VALACICLOVIRUM’ OR ‘CREVIR’:tn OR ‘LABOVIR’:tn OR ‘MYVAL’:tn OR ‘RIVACIR’:tn OR  ‘SOLVAPRENT’:tn OR ‘TALAVIR’:tn OR ‘TRIDIAVIR’:tn OR ‘VACICLOR’:tn OR ‘VALACICLOVIR’:tn OR  ‘VALACIKLOVIR’:tn OR ‘VALACILOVIR’:tn OR ‘VALAVIR’:tn OR ‘VALDACIR’:tn OR ‘VALOMED’:tn OR  ‘VALOTIX’:tn OR ‘VALTREX’:tn OR ‘VIROPEL’:tn OR ‘VOCIFLON’:tn OR ‘ZELITREX’:tn OR ‘CO  VALACYCLOVIR’:tn OR ‘RAPIVIR’:tn OR ‘VALACICLOVIR’:tn OR ‘VALACYCLOVIR’:tn OR ‘VALTREX’:tn OR  ‘ZELITREX’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   152.  Celecoxib   ‘CELECOXIB’ OR ‘CELEKOKSIBA’ OR ‘CELECOXIBUM’ OR ‘CELECOXIB’ OR ‘CELECOXIB’ OR  ‘CELEKOKSYB’ OR ‘CELEKOKSIB’ OR ‘CELEKOKSIBA’ OR ‘CELEKOKSIBO’ OR ‘CELECOXIBUM’ OR  ‘CELECOXIB’ OR ‘CELECOXIB’ OR ‘CELEKOXIB’ OR ‘CELEKOKSIBA’ OR ‘CÉLÉCOXIB’ OR ‘SELEK OKSIBIA’  OR ‘TSELEKOKSIIBI’ OR ‘CELECOXIBUM’ OR ‘CELETOR’ :tn OR ‘CELIXIB’ :tn OR ‘CELORA’:tn OR  ‘CLIBEX’:tn OR ‘CLOXABIX’:tn OR ‘COXIBEN’:tn OR ‘KUDEQ’:tn OR ‘LETABEX’:tn OR ‘LICEBRIL’:tn OR  ‘LOXCESIG’:tn OR ‘OXIBIN’:tn OR ‘OZELSIGT’:tn OR ‘SEDRIVALEX’:tn OR ‘SIGCELOX’:tn OR  ‘SIGLEOZBE’:tn OR ‘SOLEXA’:tn OR ‘SYRIBREX’:tn OR ‘COXIB’:tn OR ‘ZELSIGLAT’:tn OR ‘ARTILOG’:tn     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 189/368   OR ‘CELCOX’:tn OR ‘CELEBRA’:tn OR ‘CELEBREX’:tn OR ‘CELECOX’:tn OR ‘CELECOXIB’:tn OR  ‘CELEMAX’:tn OR ‘SOLEXA’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   153.  Nifedipine   ‘NIFEDIPINE’ OR ‘NIFÉDIPINE’ OR ‘NIFEDIPINA’ OR ‘NIFEDIPINA’ OR ‘NIFEDIPINUM’ OR ‘NIFÉDIPINE’  OR ‘NIFEDIPINO’ OR ‘NIFEDIPIN’ OR ‘NIFEDIPRESS’ OR ‘NIFEDOZ’:tn OR ‘NIFEHEXAL’:tn OR  ‘NIFEHEXAL’:tn OR ‘NIFELAT’:tn OR ‘NIFENOVA’:tn OR ‘NIFICAL’:tn OR ‘NIFOPRESS’:tn OR ‘NIMODREL  XL’:tn OR ‘NIVATEN’:tn OR ‘TENSIPINE MR’:tn OR ‘UNIPINE XL / CARDILATE’:tn OR ‘VALNI’:tn OR  ‘ΑDALAT’:tn OR ‘ADALAT’:tn OR ‘ADALATE’:tn OR ‘ADDOS’:tn OR ‘ADEFIN’:tn OR ‘AFEDITAB’:tn OR  ‘ANHITEN -A’:tn OR ‘NIFED’:tn OR ‘APRICAL’:tn OR ‘ATANAAL’:tn OR ‘ATENERATE’:tn OR  ‘CALCIBLOC’:tn OR ‘CALCIGARD’:tn OR ‘CARDIFEN’:tn OR ‘CARDIPIN’:tn OR ‘CASANMIL’:tn OR  ‘CHRONADALATE’:tn OR ‘CORACTEN’:tn OR ‘CORDAFLEX’:tn OR ‘CORDICANT’:tn OR ‘CORDIPIN’:tn OR  ‘CORINAEL’:tn OR ‘CORINFAR’:tn OR ‘COROTREND’:tn OR ‘ECODIPIN’:tn OR ‘EMABERIN’:tn OR  ‘FEDALOC’:tn OR ‘HERLAT’:tn OR ‘KISALART’:tn OR ‘KORDIPIN’:tn OR ‘ -NIFEDIPINE’:tn OR  ‘NELAPINE’:tn OR ‘NICARDIA’:tn OR ‘NIDILAT’:tn OR ‘NIFECARD’:tn OR ‘NIFEDIAC’:tn OR  ‘NIFEDICAL’:tn OR ‘NIFEDICOR’:tn OR ‘NIFEDICRON’:tn OR ‘NIFEDIPAT’:tn OR ‘NIFEDIPIN’:tn OR  ‘NIFEDIPINE’:tn OR ‘NIFEHEXAL’:tn OR ‘NIFELANTERN’:tn OR ‘NIFESLOW’:tn OR ‘NIFICARD’:tn OR  ‘NIRENA L’:tn OR ‘OSMO -ADALAT’:tn OR ‘OXCORD’:tn OR ‘PRESSOLAT’:tn OR ‘PROCARDIA’:tn OR  ‘RAMITALATE -L’:tn OR ‘SEPAMIT’:tn OR ‘SIOPELMIN -L’:tn OR ‘TOWARAT’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 190/368   contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   154.  Vancomycin   ‘VANCOMYCIN’ OR ‘VANCOMYCINUM’ OR ‘VANCOMICINĂ’ OR ‘VA NCOMICINA’ OR ‘VANCOMYCINE’ OR   ‘ADIMICIN’ OR ‘BACTOCIN’ :tn OR ‘EDICIN’ :tn OR ‘LEVOVANOX’ :tn OR ‘MAXIVANIL’ :tn OR  ‘NORIMKO’ :tn OR ‘SELAMAT’ :tn OR ‘VACOCIN’ :tn OR ‘VAMYSIN’ :tn OR ‘VANCO’ :tn OR ‘VANCOCIN’ :tn  OR ‘VANCOCINA’ OR ‘VANCOMICINA’ OR ‘VANCOMYCIN’ OR ‘VANCOMYCIN -HUMAN  GYÓGYSZERGYÁR’  OR ‘VANCOMYCINE’ OR ‘VANCOSAN’:tn OR ‘VANCOTEX’:tn OR ‘VANKOMICIN’:tn OR ‘VANYCIN’:tn OR  ‘VONCON’:tn OR ‘VONDEM’:tn OR ‘VOXIN’:tn OR  ‘ZENGAC’:tn OR ‘DHACOCIN.’:tn OR ‘EDICIN’:tn OR  ‘MEEK’:tn OR ‘VANCO’:tn OR ‘VANCOCIN’:tn OR ‘VANCOCINE’:tn OR ‘VANCOMICINA’:tn OR  ‘VANCOMYCIN’:tn OR ‘VANCOMYCINE’:tn OR ‘VANCOTEX’:tn OR ‘VONDEM’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   155.  Zolmitriptan   ‘ZOLMITRIPTAN’ OR ‘ZOLMITRIPTANO’ OR ‘ZOLMITRIPTĀNS’ OR ‘ZOLMITRIPTANAS’ OR  ‘ZOLMITRIPTANUM’ OR ‘ZOLMITRIPTÁN’ OR ‘ZOLMITRIPTÁN’ OR ‘SOLMITRIPTÁN’ OR ‘ZOLMITRIPTAN’  OR ‘TSOLMITRIPTAANIA’ OR ‘TSOLMITRIPTAANI’ OR ‘ZOLMI TRIPTAAN’ OR ‘ZOLMITRIPTÁN’ OR  ‘ALGOMIGRAN’:tn OR ‘CEPHOROMITAN’:tn OR ‘FLAS’:tn OR ‘HEADZOL’:tn OR ‘MAGREZOL’:tn OR  ‘MAZOL’:tn OR ‘MEDIZOLTAN’:tn OR ‘MIGRANEL’:tn OR ‘MITHAN’:tn OR ‘OZOLMOTAN’:tn OR  ‘TRIPTEX’:tn OR ‘VATRIPT’:tn OR ‘ZALSTERIM’:tn OR ‘ZOLFAR’:tn OR ‘ZOLMIBLES’:tn OR  ‘ZOLMILES’:tn OR ‘ZOLMILESS’:tn OR ‘ZOLMILEX’:tn OR ‘ZOLMISAN’:tn OR ‘ZOLMISTAD’:tn OR  ‘ZOLMITRIPTAN’:tn OR ‘ZOLMITRIPTANO’:tn OR ‘ZOLMIZEN’:tn OR ‘ZOLWELHAM’:tn OR ‘ASCOTOP’:tn  OR ‘ZOMIG’:tn OR ‘ZOMIGORO’:tn OR ‘ZOMIGRM’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 191/368   OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   156.  Moxifloxacin   ‘MOXIFLOXACIN’ OR ‘MOXIFLOXACINE’ OR ‘MOKSIFLOKSACIN’ OR ‘MOXIFLOXACINĂ’ OR  ‘MOXIFLOXACINA’ OR ‘MOXIFLOXACINA’ OR ‘MOXÍFLOXASÍN’ OR ‘MOKSIFLOKSACIN’ OR  ‘MOXIFLOXACINE’ OR ‘MOKSIFLOKSASIINIA’ OR ‘MOKSIFLOKSATSIINILE’ OR ‘MOXIFLOXACINA’ OR  ‘MOXIFLOXACIN’ OR ‘MOXIFLOXACIN’ OR ‘MOXIFLOXACIN’ OR ‘ACTIMAX’:tn OR ‘ACTIRA’:tn OR  ‘AIRFLOX’:tn OR ‘AVALOX’:tn OR ‘AVELOX’:tn OR ‘CIMOCINOX’:tn OR ‘FLOXAMIC’:tn OR  ‘FLOXITRAT’:tn OR ‘FLOXITRAT OFTA’:tn OR ‘IZILOX’:tn OR ‘KANAVIG’:tn OR ‘LIFODROX’:tn OR  ‘MIKROBIEL’:tn OR ‘MOFIL’:tn OR ‘MOFINACIN’:tn OR ‘MOFLAXA’:tn OR ‘MOKSACIN’:tn OR  ‘MOKSIFLOKSACIN’:tn OR ‘MOKSIFLOXACIN KRKA’:tn OR ‘MOLOXIN’:tn OR ‘MOLOXLN’:tn OR  ‘MONAFOX’:tn OR ‘MOXIBIOT’:tn OR ‘MOXIFALON’:tn OR ‘MOXIFLOXACIN’:tn OR ‘MOXIFLOXACIN’:tn  OR ‘MOXIFLOXACINE’:tn OR ‘MOXIFLOXACINE’:tn OR ‘MOXIFLOXACINO’:tn OR ‘MOXIQUIN’:tn OR  ‘MOXIVA’:tn OR ‘MOXIVIG’:tn OR ‘OCTEGRA’:tn OR ‘PLIVAMOX’:tn OR ‘PROFLOX’:tn OR ‘VAMOCIN’:tn  OR ‘VIGAMOX’:tn OR ‘ACTIMAX’:tn OR ‘AVALOX’:tn OR ‘AVELON’:tn OR ‘AVELOX’:tn OR ‘IZILOX’:tn OR  ‘MOXEZA’:tn OR ‘PROFLOX’:tn OR ‘VEGAMOX’:tn OR ‘VIGADEXA’:tn OR ‘VIGAMOX’:tn AND ('adverse  drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR  'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   157.  Diazepam   ‘DIAZEPAM’ OR ‘DIAZEPĀMS’ OR ‘DIAZEPAMAS’ OR ‘DIAZEPAMUM’ OR ‘DIAZÉPAM’ O R ‘DIASEPAAM’ OR  ‘ANEUROL’:tn OR ‘ANSIOLIN’:tn OR ‘ANSIUM’:tn OR ‘ANXICALM’:tn OR ‘APAURIN’:tn OR  ‘APOZEPAM’:tn OR ‘AZEPIUM’:tn OR ‘BIALZEPAM’:tn OR ‘BIALZEPAM’:tn OR ‘DIAPAM’:tn OR  ‘DIAZEMULS’:tn OR ‘DIAZEP -CT’:tn OR ‘DIAZEPAM’:tn OR ‘DIAZEPAN NORMON’:tn OR ‘DIAZEPEKS’:tn  OR ‘DISTEDON’:tn OR ‘GEWACALM’:tn OR ‘HARMOMED’:tn OR ‘HEXALID’:tn OR ‘KRATIUM’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 192/368   ‘LIPURO’:tn OR ‘MEDIPAM’:tn OR ‘METAMIDOL’:tn OR ‘NEORELIUM’:tn OR ‘NOAN’:tn OR ‘OBISPAX’:tn  OR ‘RELANIUM’:tn OR ‘RELIUM’:tn OR ‘RELSED’:tn OR ‘REMEDIUM’:tn OR ‘SEDUXEN’:tn OR  ‘SPASMOMEN SOMATICO’:tn OR ‘STEDON’:tn OR ‘STESOLID’:tn OR ‘TENSIUM’:tn OR ‘TRANQUIRIT’:tn  OR ‘TROPARGAL’:tn OR ‘UNISEDIL’:tn OR ‘VALIUM’:tn OR ‘VALOCORDIN’:tn OR ‘VALTRAX’:tn OR  ‘VATRAN’:tn OR ‘VIVAL’:tn OR ‘ALBORAL’:tn OR ‘ANSIOLIN’:tn OR ‘ANSIUM’:tn OR ‘ANTENEX’:tn OR  ‘ANXICALM’:tn OR ‘APAURIN’:tn OR ‘APO DIAZEPAM’:tn OR ‘ASSIVAL’:tn OR ‘BENSEDIN’:tn OR  ‘BENZOPIN’:tn OR ‘CELLKAM’:tn OR ‘CERCINE’:tn OR ‘COMPAZ’:tn OR ‘DIAPINE’:tn OR ‘DIAPP’:tn OR  ‘DIASTAT’:tn OR ‘DIASTAT ACUDIAL’:tn OR ‘DIAZEM’:tn OR ‘DIAZEMULS’:tn OR ‘DIAZEPAM’:tn OR  ‘DIAZEPAM -GA’:tn OR ‘DIAZEPAN’:tn OR ‘DIENPAX’:tn OR ‘DUCENE’:tn OR ‘FAUSTAN’:tn OR  ‘HORIZON’:tn OR ‘METAMIDOL’:tn OR ‘NUMENCIAL’:tn OR ‘PACEUM’:tn OR ‘PAX’:tn OR ‘PEALKIT’:tn  OR ‘PSYCHOPAX’:tn OR ‘RELANIUM’:tn OR ‘SEDUXEN’:tn OR ‘SERENAMIN’:tn OR ‘SIBAZON’:tn OR  ‘STESOLID’:tn OR ‘TAZAC’:tn OR ‘TEPAZEPAN’:tn OR ‘VALIUM’:tn OR ‘VALOCORDIN’:tn OR ‘VALPAM’:tn  OR ‘VALTRAX’:tn OR ‘VATRAN’:tn OR ‘VIVOL’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   158.  Erythromycin   ‘ERYTHROMYCIN’ OR ‘ERITR OMICINA’ OR ‘ERYTHROMYCINE’ OR ‘ERITROMICINA’ OR ‘ERYTROMYCYNA’  OR ‘ERITROMICĪNS’ OR ‘ERITROMICINA’ OR ‘ERYTHROMYCINE’ OR ‘ÉRYTHROMYCINE’ OR  ‘ERYTROMYSIINI’ OR ‘ERIT ROMICINA’ OR ‘ABBOTICIN’:tn OR ‘ABBOTICINE’:tn OR ‘ACNE HERMAL’:tn  OR ‘ACNERIN’:tn OR ‘ACNERYNE’:tn OR ‘ACNEVUL’:tn OR ‘AKNEFUG EL’:tn OR ‘AKNEFUG -EL’:tn OR  ‘AKNEMYCIN’:tn OR ‘ANTIBIOTREX’:tn OR ‘BENZADERMINE’:tn OR ‘BENZERYT’:tn OR ‘BENZÉRYT’:tn  OR ‘CLINAC’:tn OR ‘CUSI ERYTHROMYCIN’:tn OR ‘DANKIT’:tn OR ‘DAVERCIN’:tn OR ‘DERIPIL’:tn OR  ‘EGERY’:tn OR ‘EPICUTANTEST -TROLAB D2499’:tn OR ‘ERIDOSIS’:tn OR ‘ERITROCEL’:tn OR  ‘ERITROCINA’:tn OR ‘ERITROGOBENS’:tn OR ‘ERITROMAGIS’:tn OR ‘ERITROMICINA’:tn OR  ‘ERMYCED’:tn OR ‘ERMYCIN’:tn OR ‘ERMYSIN’:tn OR ‘ERY’:tn OR ‘ERY ENFANTS’:tn OR ‘ERY  NOURRISSONS’:tn OR ‘ERYACNE’:tn OR ‘ERYAKNEN’:tn OR ‘ERYBENZ’:tn OR ‘ERYCEN’:tn OR  ‘ERYCIN’:tn OR ‘ERYCINE’:tn OR ‘ERYCINUM’:tn OR ‘ERYDERM’:tn OR ‘ERYDERMEC’:tn OR  ‘ERYFLUID’:tn OR ‘ERYHEXAL’:tn OR ‘ERYLIK’:tn OR ‘ERYTHRO -CT’:tn OR ‘ERYTHROCIN’:tn OR  ‘ERYTHROCINE’:tn OR ‘ERYTHROCIN -I.V.’:tn OR ‘ERYTHROFORTE’:tn OR ‘ERYTHROFORTE 500’:tn OR  ‘ERYTHROGEL’:tn OR ‘ERYTHROLAR’:tn OR ‘ERYTHROMID’:tn OR ‘ERYTHROMYCIN’:tn OR  ‘ERYTHROPED A’:tn OR ‘ERYTHROTROP’:tn OR ‘HEXABOTIN’:tn OR ‘INDERM’:tn OR ‘ISOTREX’:tn OR  ‘ISOTREXIN’:tn OR ‘LAUROMICINA’:tn OR ‘LODERM’:tn OR ‘OFTALMOLOSA CUSI ERITROMICINA’:tn OR  ‘PAEDIATHROCIN’:tn OR ‘PANTOMICINA’:tn OR ‘PEDIAZOLE’:tn OR ‘PORPHYROCIN’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 193/368   ‘PRIMACANE’:tn OR ‘PRIMACINE’:tn OR ‘PROPIOCINE’:tn OR ‘RETCIN’:tn OR ‘STIEMYCIN’:tn OR  ‘STIEMYCINE’:tn OR ‘STIMYCINE’:tn OR ‘TILORYTH’:tn OR ‘TROLAB’:tn OR ‘ZAKERNAC’:tn OR  ‘ZINERYT’:tn OR ‘ABBOTICIN’:tn OR ‘AKNEMYCIN’:tn OR ‘BENZAMYCIN’:tn OR ‘E -MYCIN’:tn OR  ‘E.E.S’:tn OR ‘E.S.E.’:tn OR ‘ECOLICIN’:tn OR ‘EES’:tn OR ‘EMGEL’:tn OR ‘ERITINA’:tn OR ‘ERITREX’:tn  OR ‘ERITROCINA’:tn OR ‘ERITROMICINA’:tn OR ‘ERY’:tn OR ‘ERY -TAB’:tn OR ‘ERYACNE’:tn OR  ‘ERYAKNEN’:tn OR ‘ERYC’:tn OR ‘ERYDERM’:tn OR ‘ERYGEL’:tn OR ‘ERYMAX’:tn OR ‘ERYPED’:tn OR  ‘ERYTHRO’:tn OR ‘ERYTHROCIN’:tn OR ‘ERYTHROCINE’:tn OR ‘ERYTHROGEL’:tn OR  ‘ERYTHROMYCIN’:tn OR ‘ILOSONE’:tn OR ‘ILOTYCIN’:tn OR ‘ISOTREXIN’:tn OR ‘MEDISMON’:tn OR  ‘MONOMYCIN’:tn OR ‘PCE’:tn OR ‘PEDIAZOLE’:tn OR ‘ROMMIX’:tn OR ‘STATICIN’:tn OR ‘STIEMYCIN’:tn  OR ‘STIEVAMYCIN’:tn OR ‘T -STAT’:tn OR ‘ZINERYT’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   159.  Folinic Acid   ‘FOLINIC ACID’ OR ‘LEUCOVORIN’ OR ‘2 -[[4-[(2-AMINO -5-FORMYL -4-OXO-1,6,7,8 - TETRAHYDROPTERIDIN -6-YL)METHYLAMINO]BENZOYL]AMINO]PENTANEDIOIC ACID’ OR  ‘CITROVORUM FACTOR’ OR ‘ACIDUM FOLINICUM’ OR ‘ACIDO FOLINICO’ OR ‘ACIDE FOLINIQUE’ OR  ‘LEUCOVORIN’ OR ‘FOLINSÄURE’ OR ‘CALCIUMFOLINAAT’ OR ‘CALCIUMFOLINAT’ OR  ‘CALCIUMFOLINATE’ OR ‘CALCIUMLEVOFOLINAT’ OR ‘CALFOLEX’:tn OR ‘CALINAT’:tn OR  ‘CITOFOLIN’:tn OR ‘CROMATONBIC FOLÍNICO’:tn OR ‘ELVORINE’:tn OR ‘EUROFOLIC’:tn OR  ‘FEDOLEN’:tn OR ‘FERPLEX FOL’:tn OR ‘FERROFOLIN’:tn OR ‘FOLANEMIN’:tn OR ‘FOLAREN’:tn OR  ‘FOLCASIN’:tn OR ‘FOLI -CELL’:tn OR ‘FOLICAL’:tn OR ‘FOLIDAR’:tn OR ‘FOLINAT DE CALCIU’:tn OR  ‘FOLINATE DE CALCIUM’:tn OR ‘FOLINATE EG’:tn OR ‘FOLINATO’:tn OR ‘FOLINEZUUR’:tn OR ‘FOLINIC  ACID (AS CALCIUM FOLINATE)’:tn OR ‘FOLINORAL’:tn OR ‘FOLINOVO’:tn OR ‘HEPA -FACTOR’:tn OR  ‘ISOVORIN’:tn OR ‘KALCIJEV FOLINAT’:tn OR ‘KALCIUMFOLINAT’:tn OR ‘LEDERFOLAT’:tn OR  ‘LEDERFOLIN’:tn OR ‘LEDERFOLINE’:tn OR ‘LEGOFOLIN’:tn OR ‘LEUCOVORIN’:tn OR ‘LEUCOVORINE’:tn  OR ‘LEVOFOLINATE DE CALCIUM’:tn OR ‘LEVOFOLINATO DE CÁLCIO’:tn OR ‘LEVOFOLINIC ACID’:tn OR  ‘LIZOCALCIO’:tn OR ‘MEDICOFOLIN’:tn OR ‘MEDIFOLIN’:tn OR ‘NEOFOLIN’:tn OR ‘ONCOFOLIC’:tn OR  ‘RAYCEPT’:tn OR ‘REFOLINON’:tn OR ‘REKORD B12’:tn OR ‘REOTAN’:tn OR ‘RESCUVOLIN’:tn OR  ‘RIBOFOLIN’:tn OR ‘RIBOFOLIN KAPSELN’:tn OR ‘RIBOSOFOL’:tn OR ‘SANIFOLIN’:tn OR  ‘SODIOFOLIN’:tn OR ‘TONOFOLIN’:tn OR ‘VERAVORIN’:tn OR ‘VORINA’:tn OR ‘ZAMENIT’:tn OR  ‘ZENEMIA’:tn OR ‘ANTREX’:tn OR ‘CALCIUM FOLINATE EBEWE’:tn OR ‘CALFOLEX’:tn OR ‘ELVORINE’:tn  OR ‘EUROFOLIC’:tn OR ‘FOLINATE DE CALCIUM’:tn OR ‘FUSILEV’:tn OR ‘IMOFOLIN’:tn OR  ‘ISOVORIN’:tn OR ‘LEDERFOLIN’:tn OR ‘LEDERFOLINE’:tn OR ‘LEDERVORIN’:tn OR ‘LEUCOVORIN’:tn     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 194/368   OR ‘LEUCOVORINE’:tn OR ‘LEVOFOLENE’:tn OR ‘LEVOFOLINATE YAKULT’:tn OR ‘LEVOLEUCOVORIN  CALCIUM’:tn OR ‘NEOFOLIN’:tn OR ‘REFOLINON’:tn OR ‘RESCUVOLIN’:tn OR ‘FOLIN’:tn OR ‘UZEL’:tn  AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR  misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp  OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   160.  Glycerol   ‘GLYCEROL’ O R ‘GLYCERIN’ OR ‘GLYCERINE’ OR ‘GLICERIN’ OR ‘GLICEROL’ OR ‘GLYCERÍN’ OR  ‘GLYCEROLUM’ OR ‘GLICEROL’ OR ‘GLICERINĂ’ OR ‘GLICEROL’ OR ‘GLICERINA’ OR ‘GLICERYNA (E422)’  OR ‘GLICERYNA’ OR ‘GLICEROL’ OR ‘GLYSERIN’ OR ‘GLYSEROL’ OR ‘GLYCERINE’ OR ‘GLYCEROL’ OR  ‘GLYCERIN’  OR ‘GLICEROLS’ OR ‘GLICERĪNS’ OR ‘GLICEROLIO’ OR ‘GLICERINAS’ OR ‘GLICEROLIS’ OR  ‘GLYCEROLUM’ OR  ‘GLICEROLO’ OR ‘GLICERINA’ OR ‘GLYSEROLI’ OR ‘GLÝCERÓL’ OR ‘GLÝSERÍN’ OR  ‘GLICEROL’ OR ‘GLICERIN’ OR ‘GLICEROL’ OR ‘GLYCÉRINE’ OR ‘GLYCÉROL’ OR ‘GLYSEROLI’ OR  ‘GLYSERIINI’ OR ‘GLÜTSEROOL’ OR ‘GLÜTSERIIN’ O R ‘GLICERINA’ OR ‘GLICEROL’ OR ‘GLYZERIN’ OR  ‘GLYCERINE’ OR ‘GLYCEROLUM’ OR ‘GLYCEROL’ OR ‘GLYCERIN’ OR ‘A LA GLYCERINE ADULTES MONOT’  OR ‘A LA GLYCERINE NOURRISSONS MONOT’ OR ‘ADULAX’:tn OR ‘AMIDO GLICEROLATO’:tn OR  ‘ARNICA COMP. / FORMICA’:tn OR ‘BABYLAX’:tn OR ‘BAUMADE GÉ’:tn OR ‘BEBEGEL’:tn OR ‘BENYLIN  CHILDRENS APPLE FLAVOUR COUGH OR CALCOUGH INFANT OR BENYLIN INFANTS COUGH’:tn OR  ‘BENYLIN TICKLY COUGHS NON -DROWSY’:tn OR ‘BLACKCURRANT FLAVOUR COUGH’:tn OR  ‘BONLAX’:tn OR ‘BOOTS CONSTIPATION RELIEF SUPPOSITORIES’:tn OR ‘CLARILAXINA STITICHEZZA  ADULTI’:tn OR ‘COVONIA DRY & TICKLY COUGH LINCTUS’:tn OR ‘CRISTAL ADULTES’:tn OR ‘CZOPKI  GLICEROLOWE’:tn OR ‘DAGRAGEL’:tn OR ‘DE GLICERINA’:tn OR ‘DELTALIPID’:tn OR  ‘DERMATODORON’:tn OR ‘DEXATOPIA’:tn OR ‘DEXERYL’:tn OR ‘DILUTED SAUTON SSI’:tn OR  ‘DULCOLAXO’:tn OR ‘EQUISETUM ARVENSE’:tn OR ‘EUCABAL’:tn OR ‘EUMOCREAM’:tn OR ‘EXEDIEM’:tn  OR ‘FLETCHERS’:tn OR ‘GELOPANBILINE’:tn OR ‘GLH + GLUCOSE & IPECACUANHA ORAL  SOLUTION’:tn OR ‘GLICERIN -’:tn OR ‘GLICERINA’:tn OR ‘GLICEROLAX’:tn OR ‘GLICEROLO’:tn OR  ‘GLICEROLOWE LABORATORIUM GALENOWE OLSZTYN’:tn OR ‘GLICEROTENS’:tn OR ‘GLICERYNA’:tn  OR ‘GLYCERIN’:tn OR ‘GLYCEROL’:tn OR ‘GLYCILAX’:tn OR ‘HAL ALLERGY PRICK TESTS’:tn OR ‘INDIAN  BRANDEE’:tn OR ‘KANOVA ADULTOS’:tn OR ‘KANOVA NIÑOS’:tn OR ‘LAXAVIT’:tn OR ‘LIPOFUNDIN  MCT’:tn OR ‘LIPOVENOES’:tn OR ‘LIPOVENÖS’:tn OR ‘MILAX’:tn OR ‘MINIDERM’:tn OR ‘NENE -LAX’:tn  OR ‘OMEGAVEN’:tn OR ‘OXALIS, FOLIUM’:tn OR ‘PAIDOLAX’:tn OR ‘PROLAX’:tn OR ‘RALVACEX’:tn OR  ‘SAINSBURYS CONSTIPATION RELIEF SUPPOSITORIES’:tn OR ‘SENSODERM’:tn OR ‘SUPERDRUG  GLYCERINE CONSTIPATION RELIEF SUPPOSITORIES’:tn OR ‘SUPOGLIZ’:tn OR ‘SUPOSITÓRIOS DE  GLICERINA ADULTO’:tn OR ‘SUPPOSITOIRE A LA GLYCERINE’:tn OR ‘SUPPOSITORIA CUM GLYCEROLO  ET GELATINA P.B. V MEDICA ADULTES’:tn OR ‘SUPPOSITORIA GLYCERINI’:tn OR ‘TESCO     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 195/368   CONSTIPATION RELIEF SUPPOSITORIES’:tn OR ‘THYMI EXTRACTUM FLUIDUM (1 : 2 - 2.5), AMMONIA  10% (M/M) - GLYCEROL 85% (M/M) - ETHANOL 90% (V/V) - WATER (1 : 20 : 70 : 109) (M/M) ‘:tn OR  ‘THYMIAN’:tn OR ‘THYMIVERLAN’:tn OR ‘TIXYLIX BABY’:tn OR ‘TIXYLIX BLACKCURRANT FLAVOUR’:tn  OR ‘TIXYLIX TODDLER’:tn OR ‘TUSS KRÄUTERTROPFEN’:tn OR ‘VEROLAX’:tn OR ‘ZETALAX’:tn OR  ‘BULBOID’:tn OR ‘DEXERYL’:tn OR ‘GLYCEREB’:tn OR ‘GLYCERINE’:tn OR ‘GLYCILAX’:tn OR  ‘HISICEOL’:tn OR ‘K -Y’:tn OR ‘KENEI G’:tn OR ‘LIPOFUNDIN MCT’:tn OR ‘MILAX’:tn OR ‘OASIS  TEARS’:tn OR ‘PEDIA -LAX (GLYCERIN)’:tn OR ‘VEROLAX’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   161.  Carbidopa   ‘CARBIDOPA’ OR ‘KARBIDOPA’ OR  ‘CARBIDOPA’ OR ‘KARBIDOPY’ OR ‘CARBIDOPUM’ OR ‘LEVODOPA’  OR ‘L -DOPA’ OR ‘3 -HYDROXY -L-TYROSINE’ OR ‘LEVODOPA’ OR ‘LEVODOPE’ OR ‘LEVODOPY’ OR  ‘LEVODOPA’ OR ‘LEVODOPA’ OR ‘LEWODOPY’ OR ‘LEVODOPA’ OR ‘LEVODOPA’ OR ‘LEVODOPA’ OR  ‘LEVODOPUM’ OR ‘LEVODOPU’ OR ‘LEVODOPOS’ OR ‘LEVODOPUM’ OR ‘LEVODOPA’ OR ‘LEVODOPA’ OR  ‘LEVÓDÓPA’ OR ‘LEVODOPA’ OR ‘LEVODOPE’ OR ‘LÉVODOPA’ OR ‘LEVODOPA’ OR ‘LEVODOPAA’ OR  ‘LEVODOPAT’ OR ‘LEVODOPA’ OR ‘LEVODOPA’ OR ‘LEVODOPA’ OR ‘LEVODOPUM’ OR ‘APODESPAN  PR’:tn OR ‘ARNALEVOCAP’:tn OR ‘CARAMET’:tn OR ‘CARPOSEKKUR’:tn OR ‘CO -CARELDOPA’:tn OR  ‘CORBILTA’:tn OR ‘CREDANIL’:tn OR ‘DOPADURA C’:tn OR ‘DOPAMAR’:tn OR ‘DUODOPA’:tn OR  ‘FLEXILEV’:tn OR ‘HALF SINEMET CR’:tn OR ‘ISICOM’:tn OR ‘KARDOPAL’:tn OR ‘KARDOPAL MITE’:tn  OR ‘LECADO’:tn OR ‘LECARDOP SR’:tn OR ‘LEVO -C’:tn OR ‘LEVOBETA’:tn OR ‘LEVOCAR’:tn OR  ‘LEVOCAR’:tn OR ‘LEVOCARB’:tn OR ‘LEVOCOMP’:tn OR ‘LEVODOP NEURAXPHARM’:tn OR ‘LEVODOPA  + CARBIDOPA + ENTACAPONA’:tn OR ‘LEVODOPA C. COMP.’:tn OR ‘LEVODOPA CARBIDOPA’:tn OR  ‘LEVODOPA PLUS CARBIDOPA’:tn OR ‘LEVODOPA/CARBIDOPA’:tn OR  ‘LEVODOPA/CARBIDOPA/ENTACAPON’:tn OR ‘LEVODOPA/CARBIDOPA/ENTACAPONA’:tn OR  ‘LEVODOPA/CARBIDOPA/ENTACAPONE’:tn OR ‘LEVODOPA/CARBIDOPA/ENTACAPONĂ   50MG/12.5MG/200MG’:tn OR ‘LEVOMED’:tn OR ‘LEVOSYNT’:tn OR ‘MIENZOPA’:tn OR ‘NACOM’:tn OR  ‘NAKOM’:tn OR ‘NAKOM MITE’:tn OR ‘NAMIZLEV’:tn OR ‘PADOVEL’:tn OR ‘PENTIRO’:tn OR  ‘SASTRAVI’:tn OR ‘SINEMET’:tn OR ‘SINEPAR’:tn OR ‘SIRIO’:tn OR ‘STACAPOLO’:tn OR ‘STALEMED’:tn  OR ‘STALEVO’:tn OR ‘STANEK’:tn OR ‘TADOGLEN’:tn OR ‘TAPIDOLA’:tn OR ‘LEVOCARB’:tn OR  ‘CARBIDOL’:tn OR ‘CARBIDOPA/LEVODOPA’:tn OR ‘CARBILEV’:tn OR ‘CARCOPA’:tn OR ‘CO - CARELDOPA’:tn OR ‘DOPACOL’:tn OR ‘DOPICAR’:tn OR ‘DUODOPA’:tn OR ‘IPX066’:tn OR ‘KINSON’:tn  OR ‘LEPRINTON’:tn OR ‘LEVOCARB’:tn OR ‘LEVOCOMP’:tn OR ‘LEVODOPA CARBIDOPA’:tn OR  ‘LEVODOPA COMP.’:tn OR ‘MENESIT’:tn OR ‘NACOM’:tn OR ‘NAKOM’:tn OR ‘NAKOM MITE’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 196/368   ‘NEODOPASTON’:tn OR ‘PARCOPA’:tn OR ‘PARKIDOPA’:tn OR ‘SINEMET’:tn OR ‘STALEVO’:tn OR  ‘SYNDOPA’:tn OR ‘TIDOMET’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   162.  Cromoglicic Acid   ‘CROMOGLICIC ACID’ OR ‘ACIDUM CROMOGLICICUM’ OR ‘ACIDE CROMOGLICIQUE’ OR ‘ÁCIDO  CROMOGLÍCICO’ OR ‘AARANE’:tn OR ‘ALERGOROM’:tn OR ‘ALLEOFTA’:tn OR ‘ALLEOPHTA  UNIDOSIS’:tn OR ‘ALLEOPTI’:tn OR ‘ALLERCROM’:tn OR ‘ALLERG -ABAK’:tn OR ‘ALLERGOCOMOD’:tn  OR ‘ALLERGOCROM’:tn OR ‘ALLERGOSPASMIN HFA’:tn OR ‘ALLERGOSPASMIN N’:tn OR  ‘ALLERGOTIN’:tn OR ‘ALLERGOVAL’:tn OR ‘ALLERGY EYE DROPS’:tn OR ‘ALLGIL’:tn OR ‘BOOTS  ALLERGY RELIEF’:tn OR ‘BRUNICROM’:tn OR ‘CATACROM’:tn OR ‘CHROMOPROL’:tn OR ‘COLIMUNE’:tn  OR ‘CROM -OPHTAL’:tn OR ‘CROMABAK’:tn OR ‘CROMADOSES’:tn OR ‘CROMALLERG’:tn OR  ‘CROMEDIL’:tn OR ‘CROMINET’:tn OR ‘CROMO’:tn OR ‘CROMO -CT’:tn OR ‘CROMO -POS’:tn OR ‘CROMO - ’:tn OR ‘CROMOBENE’:tn OR ‘CROMODAL’:tn OR ‘CROMOFREE’:tn OR ‘CROMOGLICAAT NA’:tn OR  ‘CROMOGLICATE DE SODIUM’:tn OR ‘CROMOGLICATO SODICO’:tn OR ‘CROMOGLICIN HYSAN’:tn OR  ‘CROMOGLIN’:tn OR ‘CROMOHEXAL’:tn OR ‘CROMOLUX’:tn OR ‘CROMONEZ -POS’:tn OR  ‘CROMOPTIC’:tn OR ‘CROMORHINOL’:tn OR ‘CROMOROM’:tn OR ‘CROMOXAL’:tn OR ‘CUSICROM’:tn OR  ‘CUSICROM FUERTE’:tn OR ‘DINATRIUMCROMOGLICAAT SAMENWERKENDE APOTHEKERS’:tn OR  ‘DNCG’:tn OR ‘DOLIALLERGIE’:tn OR ‘DOXALPHA’:tn OR ‘DUOBETIC’:tn OR ‘FENOLIP’:tn OR  ‘GASTROFRENAL’:tn OR ‘GLINOR’:tn OR ‘HAYFEVER EYE DROPS’:tn OR ‘HAYFEVER RELIEF’:tn OR  ‘HUMEX CONJONCTIVITE ALLERGIQUE’:tn OR ‘INTAL’:tn OR ‘INTERCRON’:tn OR ‘KAOSYL’:tn OR  ‘KROMOLYN SODNÝ’:tn OR ‘LECROLYN’:tn OR ‘HAYFEVER RELIEF EYE DROPS’:tn OR ‘LOMUDAL’:tn OR  ‘LOMUSOL’:tn OR ‘MULTICROM’:tn OR ‘MURINE HAYFEVER RELIEF EYE DROPS’:tn OR ‘NALCROM’:tn OR  ‘NATRIUM CROMOGLYCAAT EG’:tn OR ‘NATRIUMCROMOGLICAAT 20 MG/ML’:tn OR ‘OPHTACALM’:tn OR  ‘OPTICROM’:tn OR ‘OPTICRON’:tn OR ‘OPTREX ALLERGY’:tn OR ‘PENTACROM’:tn OR ‘POLCROM’:tn OR  ‘POLLYFERM’:tn OR ‘PREVALIN’:tn OR ‘RINOFRENAL’:tn OR ‘SIFICROM’:tn OR ‘SODIUM  CROMOGLICATE’:tn OR ‘TALEUM ORRSPRAY’:tn OR ‘TALEUM SZEMCSEPP’:tn OR ‘TESCO ALLERGY’:tn  OR ‘VEKFANOL’:tn OR ‘VIVICROM’:tn OR ‘VIVIDRIN’:tn OR ‘ALLERNATE’:tn OR ‘ARGINON’:tn OR  ‘CROLOM’:tn OR ‘CROMOGLICAAT NA CF’:tn OR ‘CROMOGLICIC ACID’:tn OR ‘CROMOGLIN’:tn OR  ‘CROMOHEXAL’:tn OR ‘CROMOLYN’:tn OR ‘CUMOROL’:tn OR ‘DNCG’:tn OR ‘FENOLIP’:tn OR  ‘GASTROCROM’:tn OR ‘INTAL’:tn OR ‘LOMUDAL’:tn OR ‘LOMUSOL’:tn OR ‘MITAYAKU’:tn OR  ‘NACROMIN’:tn OR ‘NALCROM’:tn OR ‘NASALCROM’:tn OR ‘NOSLAN’:tn OR ‘OPTICROM’:tn OR  ‘OPTICRON’:tn OR ‘PREVALIN’:tn OR ‘RILAN (SODIUM CROMOGLICATE)’:tn OR ‘STERI NEB     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 197/368   CROMOLYN’:tn OR ‘TOWATAL’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   163.  Heparin   ‘HEPARIN’ OR ‘HEPARINA’ OR ‘HEPARIINI’ OR ‘EPARINA’ OR ‘HEPARINUM’ OR ‘HEPARIN’ OR  ‘HEPARINUM’ OR ‘HEPARINA’ OR ‘HEPARYNA’ OR ‘HEPARINUM’ OR ‘EPARINA’ OR ‘HEPARIIN’ OR  ‘HEPARINA’ OR ‘AESCIN’:tn OR ‘ALLE’:tn OR ‘ALLÉ FORTE’:tn OR ‘ATEROCLAR’:tn OR ‘CALCIPARINA’:tn  OR ‘CALCIPARINE’:tn OR ‘CANUSAL’:tn OR ‘CEPAN’:tn OR ‘CLARISCO’:tn OR ‘COAPARIN’:tn OR  ‘CONTRACTUBEX’:tn OR ‘DEPOT -HEPARIN GILVASAN’:tn OR ‘DM GEL’:tn OR ‘DOLO - MENTHONEURIN’:tn OR ‘DOLOBENE’:tn OR ‘ECASOLV’:tn OR ‘EPARINA SODICA’:tn OR ‘EPARINA  VISTER’:tn OR ‘EPSOCLAR’:tn OR ‘EPSODILAVE’:tn OR ‘ESBERIVEN’:tn OR ‘ESCEVEN’:tn OR ‘ETRAT’:tn  OR ‘EXHIRUD HEPARIN’:tn OR ‘FLECTOR TISSUGEL HEPARINE’:tn OR ‘FUCOCUX’:tn OR ‘HELASON’:tn  OR ‘HEMERAN’:tn OR ‘HEPA’:tn OR ‘HEPA -SALBE’:tn OR ‘HEPACUX’:tn OR ‘HEPAFLEX’:tn OR ‘HEPAN’:tn  OR ‘HEPARIBENE’:tn OR ‘HEPARIN’:tn OR ‘HEPARIN -CALCIUM’:tn OR ‘HEPARINA’:tn OR ‘HEPARINE’:tn  OR ‘HEPARIZEN’:tn OR ‘HEPAROID’:tn OR ‘HEPATHROMB’:tn OR ‘HEPATHROMBIN’:tn OR  ‘HEPHATROMBIN’:tn OR ‘HEPSAL’:tn OR ‘HIRUDOID’:tn OR ‘LIOTON’:tn OR ‘LIOVEN MAX’:tn OR  ‘LIPOHEP’:tn OR ‘MARKOTON’:tn OR ‘MENAVEN’:tn OR ‘MONOPARIN’:tn OR ‘MULTIPARIN’:tn OR  ‘NORMOPARIN’:tn OR ‘PHAREPA’:tn OR ‘REOFLUS’:tn OR ‘SAVARIX’:tn OR ‘SENSICUTAN’:tn OR  ‘SPORTINO’:tn OR ‘THROMBAREDUCT’:tn OR ‘THROMBOCUTAN’:tn OR ‘THROMBOCUTAN ULTRA’:tn OR  ‘THROMBONOR’:tn OR ‘THROMBOPHOB’:tn OR ‘TRAUMA’:tn OR ‘TROMBOLISIN’:tn OR ‘TROMBOSOL’:tn  OR ‘VENALITAN’:tn OR ‘VENITAN FORTE’:tn OR ‘VENOBENE’:tn OR ‘VENOFUC’:tn OR ‘VENORUTON’:tn  OR ‘VERACER’:tn OR ‘VETREN’:tn OR ‘VIAMAL TRAUMA’:tn OR ‘VIATROMB’:tn OR ‘VOLTATRAUMA’:tn  OR ‘XANTERVIT EPARINA’:tn OR ‘BESOFTEN’:tn OR ‘CALCIPARIN’:tn OR ‘CALCIPARINA’:tn OR  ‘CALCIPARINE’:tn OR ‘CAPROCIN’:tn OR ‘CLARISCO’:tn OR ‘CONTRACTUBEX’:tn OR ‘DBL HEPARIN  SODIUM’:tn OR ‘DERIBADEX’:tn OR ‘HEMERAN’:tn OR ‘HEP -LOCK’:tn OR ‘HEPAFILLED’:tn OR  ‘HEPAFLUSH’:tn OR ‘HEPALEAN’:tn OR ‘HEPARIN’:tn OR ‘HEPARINA’:tn OR ‘HEPARINE’:tn OR  ‘HEPATHROMB 30000’:tn OR ‘HEPATHROMBIN’:tn OR ‘HIRUDOID’:tn OR ‘HIRUDOID -SOFT’:tn OR  ‘KURADOID’:tn OR ‘LIOTON’:tn OR ‘LIPACTIN’:tn OR ‘LIQUEMIN’:tn OR ‘LIQUEMINE’:tn OR ‘LYMAN’:tn  OR ‘MINIHEP’:tn OR ‘NOVO -HEPARIN’:tn OR ‘PEMIROC’:tn OR ‘PROPARIN’:tn OR ‘SOBRIUS’:tn OR  ‘THROMBOPHOB’:tn OR ‘TROMBOFOB’:tn OR ‘VENALOT H’:tn OR ‘VENORUTON’:tn OR ‘ZEPAC’:tn AND  ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti  OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 198/368   pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   164.  Oxygen   ‘OXYGEN’ OR ‘OXYGENIUM’ OR ‘OXIGENUM’ OR ‘OXYGENE’ OR ‘OXIGENO’ OR ‘SYRGAS’ OR ‘KYSLÍK’  OR ‘OXIGEN’ OR ‘OXIGÉNIO’ OR ‘TLEN’ OR ‘ZUURSTOF’ OR ‘SKĀBEKLIS’ OR ‘OXYGENIUM’ OR  ‘OSSIGENO’ OR ‘SÚREFNI’ OR ‘OXIGÉN’ OR ‘OXYGENE’ OR ‘OXYGÈNE’ OR ‘HAPPI’:tn OR ‘OXÍGENO’:tn  OR ‘OXIGENO’:tn OR ‘SAUERSTOFF’:tn OR ‘OXYGEN’:tn OR ‘KYSLÍK’:tn OR ‘MEDICINÁLNY KYSLÍK  KVAPALNÝ’:tn OR ‘MEDICINÁLNY KYSLÍK PLYNNÝ’:tn OR ‘MEDICINÁLNY PLYNNÝ KYSLÍK’:tn OR  ‘MEDICINÁLNÍ KYSLÍK KAPALNÝ’:tn OR ‘MEDICINÁLNÍ KYSLÍK PLYNNÝ’:tn OR ‘MEDICĪNISKAIS  SKĀBEKLIS, SASPIESTAIS’:tn OR ‘MEDIMIX’:tn OR ‘MEDIOX’:tn OR ‘MEDISINSK OKSYGEN’:tn OR  ‘MEDIZINISCHER SAUERSTOFF’:tn OR ‘MEDOX KYSLÍK MEDICINÁLNY’:tn OR ‘MEDOX, KYSLÍK  MEDICINÁLNY’:tn OR ‘NITRALGIN’:tn OR ‘NITRONOX’:tn OR ‘OSSIGENO’:tn OR ‘OXIGEN’:tn OR  ‘OXIGÉN’:tn OR ‘OXYGENE’:tn OR ‘OXYGÈNE MÉDICAL’:tn OR ‘OXYNOX’:tn OR ‘PROMED -LOX’:tn OR  ‘PROTOXAN’:tn OR ‘RELIVOPAN’:tn OR ‘SAUERSTOFF’:tn OR ‘SYNTHETIC AIR MEDICINAL’:tn OR  ‘SYNTHETISCHE MEDIZINISCHE LUFT AIR PRODUCTS’:tn OR ‘TLEN MEDYCZNY’:tn OR ‘VLOEIBARE  MEDISCHE ZUURSTOF’:tn OR ‘VZDUCH MEDICINÁLNÍ SYNTETICKÝ’:tn OR ‘ZUURSTOF’:tn OR  ‘ANTASOL’:tn OR ‘ENTONOX’:tn OR ‘MEDICAL LIQUID OXYGEN’:tn OR ‘MEDICAL OXYGEN’:tn OR  ‘OXIGEN’:tn OR ‘SAUERSTOFF’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 199/368   165.  Zinc Oxide   ‘ZINC OXIDE’ OR ‘ZINC WHITE’ OR ‘ZINCUM OXYDATUM’ OR ‘ZINKOXID’ OR ‘CINKOV OKSID’ OR ‘OXID  ZINOČNATÝ’ OR ‘ZINCI OXIDUM’ OR ‘OXID DE ZINC’ OR ‘ÓXIDO DE ZINCO’ OR ‘TLENEK CYNKU’ OR  ‘CYNKU TLENEK’ OR ‘SINKOKSID’ OR ‘ZINKOXIDE’ OR ‘ZINC OXIDE’ OR ‘CINKA OKSĪDS’ OR ‘CINKO  OKSIDAS’ OR ‘ZINCO OSSIDO’ OR ‘ZINKOXÍÐ’ OR ‘CINK -OXID’ OR ‘CINKOV OKSID’ OR ‘OXYDE DE  ZINC’ OR ‘SINKKIOKSIDI’ OR ‘TSINKOKSIID’ OR ‘OXIDO DE ZINC’ OR ‘ÓXIDO DE ZINC’ OR ‘ZINKOXID’  OR ‘ZINKOXID’ OR ‘OXID ZINEČNATÝ’ OR ‘ZINCI OXIDUM’ OR ‘AKNEDERM’:tn OR ‘ALOPATE’:tn OR  ‘ALOPLASTINE’:tn OR ‘AMNIOLINA’:tn OR ‘ANTICONGESTIVA CUSI (PASTA LASSAR)’:tn OR  ‘ANTIFUNGOL HEILPASTE’:tn OR ‘APOLIND’:tn OR ‘AQUEOUS CALAMINE CREAM’:tn OR ‘BABY CARE  ZINCAST’:tn OR ‘BAUME AGATHOL’:tn OR ‘BIOHEMORIL’:tn OR ‘BISMUTH SUBGALLATE’:tn OR  ‘BRULEX’:tn OR ‘CALADRYL’:tn OR ‘CALAMINE’:tn OR ‘CALDEASE 15% W/W’:tn OR ‘CARENA’:tn OR  ‘CINKA ZIEDE’:tn OR ‘CREME DE DALIBOUR’:tn OR ‘CUTIPHILE’:tn OR ‘DAKTOZIN’:tn OR ‘DARO  ZINKZALF’:tn OR ‘DERMACREME OINTMENT’:tn OR ‘DERMILON PASTE’:tn OR ‘DERMO H INFANTIL’:tn  OR ‘DERMOCUIVRE’:tn OR ‘DORCAINA’:tn OR ‘EKTOGAN’:tn OR ‘ERYSOIN’:tn OR ‘FULLERS EARTH  CREAM’:tn OR ‘FUNGIUM COMP.’:tn OR ‘FUNGUSOL CON ACCIÓN PREVENTIVA ANTE INFECCIONES  POR HONGOS Y BACTERIAS’:tn OR ‘GEL DE CALAMINE’:tn OR ‘GÁFROVÁ MASŤ S ICHTAMOLOM’:tn OR  ‘HALIBUT’:tn OR ‘HEMOFISSURAL’:tn OR ‘HERPOSICC’:tn OR ‘INFANTUM’:tn OR ‘INOTYOL’:tn OR  ‘LABISAN’:tn OR ‘LASSADERMIL’:tn OR ‘LASSAR IMBA’:tn OR ‘MAŚĆ CYNKOWA’:tn OR ‘MICONAZOL  ACIS ZINKPASTE ACIS’:tn OR ‘MICOTAR ZP’:tn OR ‘MIRFULAN’:tn OR ‘MITOSYL’:tn OR ‘MORHULIN’:tn  OR ‘MUCADERMA SALBENSPRAY S’:tn OR ‘MULTILIND MIT NYSTATIN’:tn OR ‘MYCOSTATIN’:tn OR  ‘MYKODERM’:tn OR ‘MYKUNDEX’:tn OR ‘NEO -TORMENTIL’:tn OR ‘NESTOSYL’:tn OR ‘OLIDERMIL’:tn OR  ‘OXYPLASTINE’:tn OR ‘PASTA CYNKOWA’:tn OR ‘PASTA CYNKOWA AFLOFARM’:tn OR ‘PASTA S RYBÍM  OLEJOM’:tn OR ‘PHYSIOLAN’:tn OR ‘PITYOL’:tn OR ‘POTTERS SKIN CLEAR TEA TREE’:tn OR ‘POTTERS  VARICOSE’:tn OR ‘PROCTO -HEMOLAN PROTECT’:tn OR ‘PUDER PŁYNNY’:tn OR ‘PUDRODERM’:tn OR  ‘PUDROSPAN’:tn OR ‘ROWATANAL’:tn OR ‘RUSCUS’:tn OR ‘SENOPHILE’:tn OR ‘SILAN’:tn OR  ‘SPORTENINE’:tn OR ‘SPRILON’:tn OR ‘STERIPASTE’:tn OR ‘SUDOCREM ANTISEPTIC HEALING’:tn OR  ‘SUSPENSIO ZINCI AQUOSA’:tn OR ‘SUSPENSIO ZINCI OXYDATI’:tn OR ‘TEKUTÝ PÚDER’:tn OR  ‘TORMENTILE FORTE’:tn OR ‘UNGUENTUM ANTIPHLOGISTICUM PRO INFANTE FONO VII’:tn OR  ‘UNGUENTUM INFANTUM’:tn OR ‘UNGUENTUM ZINCI OXIDI’:tn OR ‘VARIDERM’:tn OR ‘VOLON A - SCHÜTTELMIX’:tn OR ‘WUND -HEIL ZINK ABTEI OP’:tn OR ‘ZINC  AND CASTOR OIL OINTMENT BP’:tn  OR ‘ZINC AND CASTOR OIL CREAM BP’:tn OR ‘ZINK CAELO’:tn OR ‘ZINKEMULSION’:tn OR  ‘ZINKOLIE’:tn OR ‘ZINKPASTE’:tn OR ‘ZINKSALBE’:tn OR ‘ZINKZALF’:tn OR ‘ZINKÖL’:tn OR  ‘ZIPZOC’:tn OR ‘ÓLEO -DERMOSINA SIMPLES’:tn OR ‘A AND D’:tn OR ‘AMMENS’:tn OR ‘BOCHI  SHEET’:tn OR ‘CALADRYL’:tn OR ‘CALMOSEPTINE’:tn OR ‘DAKTOZIN’:tn OR ‘DERMODEX’:tn OR  ‘DESITIN’:tn OR ‘MYCOSTATIN’:tn OR ‘RECTINOL’:tn OR ‘REMEDY CALAZIME’:tn OR ‘SATOSALBE’:tn  OR ‘TRIPLE CARE’:tn OR ‘VISCOPASTE PB7’:tn OR ‘ZINADERM’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 200/368   reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   166.  Ketoconazole   ‘KETOCONAZOLE’ OR ‘1 -[4-[4-[[(2R,4S) -2-(2,4-DICHLOROPHENYL) -2-(IMIDAZOL -1-YLMETHYL) -1,3- DIOXOLAN -4-YL]METHOXY]PHENYL]PIPERAZIN -1-YL]ETHANONE’ OR ‘KETOKONAZOL’ OR  ‘KETOCONAZOL’ OR ‘CETOCONAZOL’ OR ‘KETOKONAZOL’ OR ‘KETOKONAZOL’ OR ‘KETOKONAZOLS’  OR ‘KETOKONAZOLAS’ OR ‘KETOCONAZOLUM’ OR ‘KETOKONAZOL’ OR ‘KÉTOCONAZOLE’ OR  ‘KETOKONASOOL’ OR ‘KETOCONAZOL’ OR ‘ADENOSAN’:tn OR ‘ASQUAM 2% (20 MG / ML)’:tn OR  ‘CETOCONAZOL GENERIS’:tn OR ‘COUNTERAL’:tn OR ‘DAKTARIN GOLD’:tn OR ‘DAKTARIN  INTENSIV’:tn OR ‘DANDRAZOL’:tn OR ‘DERMATÍN’:tn OR ‘EBERSEPT’:tn OR ‘FIDIKETOZOL’:tn OR  ‘FUNGAREST’:tn OR ‘FUNGORAL’:tn OR ‘ILGEM’:tn OR ‘KET MED’:tn OR ‘KETO -CURE’:tn OR ‘KETOC’:tn  OR ‘KETOCONAZOL’:tn OR ‘KETOCONAZOLE’:tn OR ‘KETOCONAZOLO EG’:tn OR ‘KETODERM’:tn OR  ‘KETOISDIN’:tn OR ‘KETOISDIN OVULOS’:tn OR ‘KETOPINE’:tn OR ‘KETOSTIN’:tn OR ‘KETOZOL’:tn OR  ‘KETOZOLIN’:tn OR ‘KONACT’:tn OR ‘LIBROMAN’:tn OR ‘MEDEZOL’:tn OR ‘MERAZOL’:tn OR  ‘MIKANISAL’:tn OR ‘NEO -EGMOL’:tn OR ‘NIZALE’:tn OR ‘NIZORAL’:tn OR ‘NOELL’:tn OR ‘NYOXEP’:tn  OR ‘ORONAZOL’:tn OR ‘PANFUNGOL’:tn OR ‘TEDOL’:tn OR ‘TERZOLIN’:tn OR ‘TRIATOP’:tn OR ‘ZOXIN - MED’:tn OR ‘DAKTARIN GOLD’:tn OR ‘EXTINA’:tn OR ‘KETAZON’:tn OR ‘KETOCIN’:tn OR  ‘KETOCONAZOL’:tn OR ‘KETODERM’:tn OR ‘KETONAZOLE’:tn OR ‘LIVAROL’:tn OR ‘MYCOSORAL’:tn OR  ‘NITRAZEN’:tn OR ‘NIZORAL’:tn OR ‘NOVO -KETOCONAZOLE’:tn OR ‘ORONAZOL’:tn OR ‘PULNA’:tn OR  ‘TRIATOP’:tn OR ‘XOLEGEL’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   167.  Ofloxacin   ‘OFLOXACIN’ OR ‘OFLOXACINU M’ OR ‘OFLOXACINA’ OR ‘OFLOKSACĪNS’ OR ‘OFLOXACINUM’ OR  ‘OFLOXACINA’ OR ‘OFLOXACINE’ OR ‘OFLOKSASIINIA’ OR ‘OFLOKSATSIIN’ OR ‘OFLOXACINO’ OR  ‘AUDRET’:tn OR ‘BIOQUIL’:tn OR ‘EUKINOFT’:tn OR ‘FLOXAL’:tn OR ‘FLOXEDOL’:tn OR ‘FLOXIMOX’:tn  OR ‘GRENIS -OFLO’:tn OR ‘GYROFLOX’:tn OR ‘MEDOFLOXINE’:tn OR ‘MONOFLOCET’:tn OR  ‘MONOFLOXOFTA’:tn OR ‘MONOOX’:tn OR ‘OFLO TAD’:tn OR ‘OFLOCET’:tn OR ‘OFLODINEX’:tn OR  ‘OFLOGEN’:tn OR ‘OFLOHEXAL’:tn OR ‘OFLOVIR’:tn OR ‘OFLOX’:tn OR ‘OFLOX BASICS’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 201/368   ‘OFLOXACIN’:tn OR ‘OFLOXACIN -OPHTAL’:tn OR ‘OFLOXACIN -POS’:tn OR ‘OFLOXACINE’:tn OR  ‘OFLOXACINĂ’:tn OR ‘OFLOXAMED’:tn OR ‘OFLOXIN’:tn OR ‘OTIFLOX’:tn OR ‘OTTOFLOX’:tn OR  ‘OXACID’:tn OR ‘OXATREX’:tn OR ‘QUINOFREE’:tn OR ‘SURNOX’:tn OR ‘TABRIN’:tn OR ‘TARIVID’:tn OR  ‘TAROFLOX’:tn OR ‘TRAFLOXAL’:tn OR ‘URO -TARIVID’:tn OR ‘ZANOCIN’:tn OR ‘EFFEXIN’:tn OR  ‘EVAFLOX’:tn OR ‘EXOCIN’:tn OR ‘EXOCINE’:tn OR ‘FLOXAL’:tn OR ‘FLOXIL’:tn OR ‘FLOXIN’:tn OR  ‘FLOXSTAT’:tn OR ‘INOFLOX’:tn OR ‘MARROMEL’:tn OR ‘NOSTIL’:tn OR ‘OCTACIN’:tn OR ‘OCUFLOX’:tn  OR ‘OFLOCET’:tn OR ‘OFLODEX’:tn OR ‘OFLOMAC.’:tn OR ‘OFLOX’:tn OR ‘OFLOXACIN’:tn OR  ‘OFLOXIN’:tn OR ‘OFTECTOR’:tn OR ‘OPOOL’:tn OR ‘PHARXACIN’:tn OR ‘QINOLON’:tn OR ‘TARIVID’:tn  OR ‘TARIVID 200’:tn OR ‘TARIZART’:tn OR ‘TRAFLOXAL’:tn OR ‘TRAVID’:tn OR ‘ZANOCIN’:tn AND  ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti  OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   168.  Folic Acid   ‘FOLIC ACID’ OR ‘VITAMIN B9’ OR ‘FOLINSYRE’ OR ‘FOLSAURE’ OR ‘ACIDUM FOLICUM’ OR ‘FOLSYRA’  OR ‘KYSELINA LISTOVÁ’ OR ‘ACID FOLIC’ OR ‘ÁCIDO FÓLICO’ OR ‘KWAS FOLIOWY’ OR ‘FOLSYRE’ OR  ‘FOLIUMZUUR’ OR ‘ACIDUM FOLICUM’ OR ‘ACIDO FOLICO’ OR ‘FÓLÍNSÝRU’ OR ‘FÓLÍNSÝRA’ OR  ‘FOLSAV’ OR ‘ACIDE FOLIQUE’ OR ‘FOOLIHAPPO’ OR ‘ÁCIDO FÓLICO’ OR ‘ACIDO FÓLICO’ OR  ‘FOLSÄURE’ OR ‘FOLSYRE’ OR ‘ACFOL’:tn OR ‘ACIFOL’:tn OR ‘ACIFOLIK’:tn OR ‘APOVIT STÆRK’:tn OR  ‘ASPOL’:tn OR ‘BALFOLIC’:tn OR ‘BIALFER’:tn OR ‘BIALFOLI’:tn OR ‘CLONFOLIC’:tn OR ‘DEXTRIFER  FOL’:tn OR ‘DREISAFOL’:tn OR ‘ENSER’:tn OR ‘EUROVIT FOLSAV’:tn OR ‘FANOLIT’:tn OR ‘FEFOL’:tn OR  ‘FEFOLATO’:tn OR ‘FEMIFOL AIWA’:tn OR ‘FEOFOL’:tn OR ‘FERO -FOLIC’:tn OR ‘FERRETAB COMP’:tn OR  ‘FERRO COMP SANOL’:tn OR ‘FERRO GYN SANOL’:tn OR ‘FERRO’:tn OR ‘FERRO -FOLSAN’:tn OR  ‘FERROGRAD FOLIC’:tn OR ‘FERROGRAD FÓLICO’:tn OR ‘FERROGRAD -FOL’:tn OR ‘FERROLA’:tn OR  ‘FERRUM FOL’:tn OR ‘FERTIFOL’:tn OR ‘FILICINE’:tn OR ‘FOL’:tn OR ‘FOL INJEKT’:tn OR ‘FOLACID’:tn  OR ‘FOLACIN’:tn OR ‘FOLCUR’:tn OR ‘FOLGAMMA MONO’:tn OR ‘FOLI -DOCE’:tn OR ‘FOLIC ACID’:tn OR  ‘FOLICIL’:tn OR ‘FOLICOM’:tn OR ‘FOLICOMBIN’:tn OR ‘FOLIDEX’:tn OR ‘FOLIFEM’:tn OR ‘FOLIFER’:tn  OR ‘FOLIFERRON’:tn OR ‘FOLIFILL’:tn OR ‘FOLIK’:tn OR ‘FOLIMET’:tn OR ‘FOLINA’:tn OR  ‘FOLINSYRE’:tn OR ‘FOLIORAL 10 MG/ML’:tn OR ‘FOLIRON’:tn OR ‘FOLIUMZUUR’:tn OR ‘FOLIVER’:tn  OR ‘FOLSAN’:tn OR ‘FOLSAV’:tn OR ‘FOLSÄURE’:tn OR ‘FOLVERLAN’:tn OR ‘FOLVIDON’:tn OR  ‘FOLVITE’:tn OR ‘FOVITAL’:tn OR ‘GALFER FA CAPSULES’:tn OR ‘GAMMA’:tn OR ‘GESTIFERROL’:tn OR  ‘GYNO -TARDYFERON’:tn OR ‘HEMAFER FOL’:tn OR ‘HUMA -FOLACID’:tn OR ‘HÄMATOPAN F’:tn OR  ‘LAFOL’:tn OR ‘LEXPEC’:tn OR ‘MALTOFER FOL’:tn OR ‘NORMOVITE’:tn OR ‘NYCOPLUS FOLSYRE’:tn OR  ‘OBSIDAN FE++ COMP’:tn OR ‘PREGADAY’:tn OR ‘SLOW FE FOLIC’:tn OR ‘SPECIAFOLDINE’:tn OR  ‘TARDYFERON FOL’:tn OR ‘TIFOL’:tn OR ‘VIAFOL 10 MG/ML’:tn OR ‘YODOCEFOL’:tn OR ‘YOFOLVIT’:tn     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 202/368   OR ‘ZOLICO’:tn OR ‘ACFOL’:tn OR ‘ACIDUM FOLICUM’:tn OR ‘ACIFOL’:tn OR ‘ANDREAFOL’:tn OR  ‘ANFOLIC’:tn OR ‘BIALFER’:tn OR ‘DIATX’:tn OR ‘DROSSAFOL’:tn OR ‘ENDOFOLIN’:tn OR ‘EURO  FOLIC’:tn OR ‘FEFOL’:tn OR ‘FERO -FOLIC’:tn OR ‘FERRANINA FOL’:tn OR ‘FERRICOL’:tn OR  ‘FERRIFOL’:tn OR ‘FERRIMED’:tn OR ‘FERRO FOLSAN’:tn OR ‘FERRO SANOL GYN’:tn OR ‘FERRO -F’:tn  OR ‘FERROGRAD FOLIC’:tn OR ‘FERRUMPOLA’:tn OR ‘FGF’:tn OR ‘FOL’:tn OR ‘FOLACID’:tn OR  ‘FOLACIN’:tn OR ‘FOLARELL’:tn OR ‘FOLATE BLACKMORES’:tn OR ‘FOLAVIT’:tn OR ‘FOLBIOL’:tn OR  ‘FOLEX’:tn OR ‘FOLIAMIN’:tn OR ‘FOLIC ACID’:tn OR ‘FOLICIL’:tn OR ‘FOLICUM’:tn OR ‘FOLIFER’:tn OR  ‘FOLIK’:tn OR ‘FOLIMET’:tn OR ‘FOLIN’:tn OR ‘FOLINA’:tn OR ‘FOLIUMZUUR’:tn OR ‘FOLIVITAL’:tn OR  ‘FOLSAN’:tn OR ‘FOLSÄURE’:tn OR ‘FOLVITE’:tn OR ‘FORIC’:tn OR ‘GAMMA’:tn OR ‘GERITOL’:tn OR  ‘GYNO -TARDYFERON’:tn OR ‘HEMOCYTE F (FOLIC ACID/FERROUS FUMARATE)’:tn OR ‘MALTOFER  FOL’:tn OR ‘MATERFOLIC’:tn OR ‘MEGAFOL’:tn OR ‘NATALCARE PLUS’:tn OR ‘NEO FOLICO’:tn OR  ‘NEUTROFER FÓLICO’:tn OR ‘NORIPURUM FÓLICO’:tn OR ‘NOVO -FOLACID’:tn OR ‘OROFER’:tn OR  ‘PREGADAY’:tn OR ‘PROFERRIN FORTE’:tn OR ‘RUBIEFOL’:tn OR ‘SAFERON’:tn OR ‘SLOW FE FOLIC’:tn  OR ‘SPECIAFOLDINE’:tn OR ‘SUPER B COMPLEX’:tn OR ‘TARDYFERON B9’:tn OR ‘TARDYFERON FOL’  ‘FOLIC ACID’:tn OR ‘VITAMIN B9’:tn OR ‘FOLINSYRE’:tn OR ‘FOLSAURE’:tn OR ‘ACIDUM FOLICUM’:tn  OR ‘FOLSYRA’:tn OR ‘KYSELINA LISTOVÁ’:tn OR ‘ACID FOLIC’:tn OR ‘ÁCIDO FÓLICO’:tn OR ‘KWAS  FOLIOWY’:tn OR ‘FOLSYRE’:tn OR ‘FOLIUMZUUR’:tn OR ‘ACIDUM FOLICUM’:tn OR ‘ACIDO FOLICO’:tn  OR ‘FÓLÍNSÝRU’:tn OR ‘FÓLÍNSÝRA’:tn OR ‘FOLSAV’:tn OR ‘ACIDE FOLIQUE’:tn OR ‘FOOLIHAPPO’:tn  OR ‘ÁCIDO FÓLICO’:tn OR ‘ACIDO FÓLICO’:tn OR ‘FOLSÄURE’:tn OR ‘FOLSYRE’:tn OR ‘ACFOL’:tn OR  ‘ACIFOL’:tn OR ‘ACIFOLIK’:tn OR ‘APOVIT STÆRK’:tn OR ‘ASPOL’:tn OR ‘BALFOLIC’:tn OR ‘BIALFER’:tn  OR ‘BIALFOLI’:tn OR ‘CLONFOLIC’:tn OR ‘DEXTRIFER FOL’:tn OR ‘DREISAFOL’:tn OR ‘ENSER’:tn OR  ‘EUROVIT FOLSAV’:tn OR ‘FANOLIT’:tn OR ‘FEFOL’:tn OR ‘FEFOLATO’:tn OR ‘FEMIFOL AIWA’:tn OR  ‘FEOFOL [150(47)+0,5]MG/CAP’:tn OR ‘FERO -FOLIC’:tn OR ‘FERRETAB COMP’:tn OR ‘FERRO COMP  SANOL’:tn OR ‘FERRO GYN SANOL’:tn OR ‘FERRO -FOLSAN’:tn OR ‘FERROGRAD FOLIC’:tn OR  ‘FERROGRAD FÓLICO’:tn OR ‘FERROGRAD -FOL’:tn OR ‘FERROLA’:tn OR ‘FERRUM FOL’:tn OR  ‘FERTIFOL’:tn OR ‘FILICINE’:tn OR ‘FOL’:tn OR ‘FOL INJEKT’:tn OR ‘FOLACID’:tn OR ‘FOLACIN’:tn OR  ‘FOLCUR’:tn OR ‘FOLGAMMA MONO’:tn OR ‘FOLI -DOCE’:tn OR ‘FOLIC ACID’:tn OR ‘FOLICIL’:tn OR  ‘FOLICOM’:tn OR ‘FOLICOMBIN’:tn OR ‘FOLIDEX’:tn OR ‘FOLIFEM’:tn OR ‘FOLIFER’:tn OR  ‘FOLIFERRON’:tn OR ‘FOLIFILL’:tn OR ‘FOLIK’:tn OR ‘FOLIMET’:tn OR ‘FOLINA’:tn OR ‘FOLINSYRE’:tn  OR ‘FOLIORAL 10 MG/ML’:tn OR ‘FOLIRON’:tn OR ‘FOLIUMZUUR’:tn OR ‘FOLIVER’:tn OR ‘FOLSAN’:tn  OR ‘FOLSAV’:tn OR ‘FOLSÄURE’:tn OR ‘FOLVERLAN’:tn OR ‘FOLVIDON’:tn OR ‘FOLVITE’:tn OR  ‘FOVITAL’:tn OR ‘GALFER FA CAPSULES’:tn OR ‘GAMMA’:tn OR ‘GESTIFERROL’:tn OR ‘GYNO - TARDYFERON’:tn OR ‘HEMAFER FOL’:tn OR ‘HUMA -FOLACID’:tn OR ‘HÄMATOPAN F’:tn OR ‘LAFOL’:tn  OR ‘LEXPEC’:tn OR ‘MALTOFER FOL’:tn OR ‘NORMOVITE’:tn OR ‘NYCOPLUS FOLSYRE’:tn OR ‘OBSIDAN  FE++ COMP’:tn OR ‘PREGADAY’:tn OR ‘SLOW FE FOLIC’:tn OR ‘SPECIAFOLDINE’:tn OR ‘TARDYFERON  FOL’:tn OR ‘TIFOL’:tn OR ‘VIAFOL 10 MG/ML’:tn OR ‘YODOCEFOL’:tn OR ‘YOFOLVIT’:tn OR ‘ZOLICO’:tn  OR ‘ACFOL’:tn OR ‘ACIDUM FOLICUM’:tn OR ‘ACIFOL’:tn OR ‘ANDREAFOL’:tn OR ‘ANFOLIC’:tn OR  ‘BIALFER’:tn OR ‘DIATX’:tn OR ‘DROSSAFOL’:tn OR ‘ENDOFOLIN’:tn OR ‘EURO FOLIC’:tn OR ‘FEFOL’:tn  OR ‘FERO -FOLIC’:tn OR ‘FERRANINA FOL’:tn OR ‘FERRICOL’:tn OR ‘FERRIFOL’:tn OR ‘FERRIMED’:tn OR  ‘FERRO FOLSAN’:tn OR ‘FERRO SANOL GYN’:tn OR ‘FERRO -F’:tn OR ‘FERROGRAD FOLIC’:tn OR  ‘FERRUMPOLA’:tn OR ‘FGF’:tn OR ‘FOL’:tn OR ‘FOLACID’:tn OR ‘FOLACIN’:tn OR ‘FOLARELL’:tn OR  ‘FOLATE BLACKMORES’:tn OR ‘FOLAVIT’:tn OR ‘FOLBIOL’:tn OR ‘FOLEX’:tn OR ‘FOLIAMIN’:tn OR  ‘FOLIC ACID’:tn OR ‘FOLICIL’:tn OR ‘FOLICUM’:tn OR ‘FOLIFER’:tn OR ‘FOLIK’:tn OR ‘FOLIMET’:tn OR  ‘FOLIN’:tn OR ‘FOLINA’:tn OR ‘FOLIUMZUUR’:tn OR ‘FOLIVITAL’:tn OR ‘FOLSAN’:tn OR ‘FOLSÄURE’:tn  OR ‘FOLVITE’:tn OR ‘FORIC’:tn OR ‘GAMMA’:tn OR ‘GERITOL’:tn OR ‘GYNO -TARDYFERON’:tn OR  ‘HEMOCYTE F (FOLIC ACID/FERROUS FUMARATE)’:tn OR ‘MALTOFER FOL’:tn OR ‘MATERFOLIC’:tn OR  ‘MEGAFOL’:tn OR ‘NATALCARE PLUS’:tn OR ‘NEO FOLICO’:tn OR ‘NEUTROFER FÓLICO’:tn OR  ‘NORIPURUM FÓLICO’:tn OR ‘NOVO -FOLACID’:tn OR ‘OROFER’:tn OR ‘PREGADAY’:tn OR ‘PROFERRIN     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 203/368   FORTE’:tn OR ‘RUBIEFOL’:tn OR ‘SAFERON’:tn OR ‘SLOW FE FOLIC’:tn OR ‘SPECIAFOLDINE’:tn OR  ‘SUPER B COMPLEX’:tn OR ‘TARDYFERON B9’:tn OR ‘TARDYFERON FOL’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   169.  Progesterone   ‘PROGESTERONE’ OR ‘PROGESTERON’ OR ‘PRO GESTERONA’ OR ‘PROGESTERONUM’ OR  ‘PROG ESTÉRONE’ OR ‘PROGESTERONA’ OR ‘PROGESTERONUM’ OR ‘AGOLUTIN’:tn OR ‘AREFAM’:tn OR  ‘CLIMOPAX’:tn OR ‘CRINONE’:tn OR ‘CYCLOGEST’:tn OR ‘DARSTIN’:tn OR ‘DEPO PRODASONE’:tn OR  ‘DEPO PROVERA’:tn OR ‘DEPO -CLINOVIR’:tn OR ‘DEPO -PROGEVERA’:tn OR ‘DEPOCON’:tn OR  ‘ELASHINE’:tn OR ‘ESOLUT’:tn OR ‘ESTIMA’:tn OR ‘FARLUTAL’:tn OR ‘GESTONE’:tn OR ‘GYNALVEN’:tn  OR ‘INPROSUB’:tn OR ‘LENTOGEST’:tn OR ‘LUBION’:tn OR ‘LUFERTI’:tn OR ‘LUGESTERON’:tn OR  ‘LUTEINA’:tn OR ‘LUTIGEST’:tn OR ‘LUTINUS’:tn OR ‘LUTTAGEN’:tn OR ‘MASTOPROFEN’:tn OR  ‘MEDROXYPROGESTERONACETAAT’:tn OR ‘MEDROXYPROGESTERONE ACETATE’:tn OR ‘MENAELLE’:tn  OR ‘MPA’:tn OR ‘MPA GYN’:tn OR ‘PLEYRIS’:tn OR ‘PRECYCLAN’:tn OR ‘PREMELLE’:tn OR ‘PREMIA’:tn  OR ‘PREMIQUE’:tn OR ‘PRODAFEM’:tn OR ‘PROGEBEL’:tn OR ‘PROGEDEX’:tn OR ‘PROGEFFIK’:tn OR  ‘PROGESTAN’:tn OR ‘PROGESTOGEL’:tn OR ‘PROGEVERA’:tn OR ‘PROGIRON’:tn OR ‘PROLUTEX’:tn OR  ‘PROLUTON’:tn OR ‘PROMETRIUM’:tn OR ‘PRONTOGEST’:tn OR ‘PROVERA’:tn OR ‘SAYANA’:tn OR  ‘SAYANA PRESS’:tn OR ‘SAYANAJECT’:tn OR ‘TROPHIGIL’:tn OR ‘UTROGEST’:tn OR ‘UTROGESTAN’:tn  OR ‘UTROGESTAN’:tn OR ‘UTROGESTAN VAGINAL’:tn OR ‘VASCLOR’:tn OR ‘VERAPLEX’:tn OR  ‘MEDROXY’:tn OR ‘CLIMOPAX’:tn OR ‘CLINOVIR’:tn OR ‘CRINONE’:tn OR ‘CYCLOGEST’:tn OR  ‘CYCRIN’:tn OR ‘DEPO PROGESTIN’:tn OR ‘DEPO PROVERA’:tn OR ‘DEPO -CLINOVIR’:tn OR ‘DEPO - PROGEVERA’:tn OR ‘DEPO -RALOVERA’:tn OR ‘DEPO -SUBQ PROVERA 104’:tn OR ‘ENDOMETRIN’:tn OR  ‘FARLUTAL’:tn OR ‘GEN -MEDROXY’:tn OR ‘GESTONE’:tn OR ‘GESTORAL’:tn OR ‘HYSRON’:tn OR  ‘LUTEINA’:tn OR ‘LUTINUS’:tn OR ‘MAKENA’:tn OR ‘MEDKIRON’:tn OR ‘MEDROXY’:tn OR  ‘MEGESTRON’:tn OR ‘MPA’:tn OR ‘OOPHORMIN LUTEUM DEPOT’:tn OR ‘PETOGEN’:tn OR ‘PREMELLE’:tn  OR ‘PREMIA’:tn OR ‘PREMIQUE’:tn OR ‘PREMPHASE’:tn OR ‘PREMPLUS’:tn OR ‘PREMPRO’:tn OR  ‘PRIMOLUT DEPOT’:tn OR ‘PROCHIEVE’:tn OR ‘PRODAFEM’:tn OR ‘PRODASONE’:tn OR ‘PROGE  DEPOT’:tn OR ‘PROGEHORMON’:tn OR ‘PROGESTAN’:tn OR ‘PROGESTOGEL’:tn OR ‘PROGESTON’:tn OR  ‘PROLUTON’:tn OR ‘PROMETRIUM’:tn OR ‘PRONTOGEST’:tn OR ‘PROVERA’:tn OR ‘RALOVERA’:tn OR  ‘RATIO -MPA’:tn OR ‘SAYANA’:tn OR ‘ -MEDROXYPROGESTERONE’:tn OR ‘UTROGESTAN’:tn AND  ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti  OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 204/368   pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   170.  Sodium Hydrogen Carbonate   ‘SODIUM HYDROGEN CARBONATE’ OR ‘SODIUM BICARBONATE’ OR ‘BAKING SODA’ :tn OR ‘E 500’ OR  ‘SODIUM HYDROGENCARBONATE’ OR ‘NÁTRIUM -HIDROGÉN -KARBONÁT’ OR  ‘NATRIUMVÄTEKARBONAT’ OR ‘NATRIUMBIKARBONAT’ OR ‘NATRIJEV HIDROGENKARBONAT’ OR  ‘HYDROGENUHLIČITAN SODNÝ’ OR ‘NATRII HYDROGENCARBONAS’ OR ‘HYDROGEN UHLIČITAN  SODNÝ’ OR ‘NATRII HYDROGENOCARBONAS’ OR ‘CARBONAT HIDROGENAT DE SODIU’ OR  ‘HIDROGENCARBONAT DE SODIU’ OR ‘DE SODIU HIDROGEN CARBONAT’ OR ‘HIDROGENOCARBONATO  DE SÓDIO’ OR ‘BICARBONATO DE SÓDIO’ OR ‘WODOROWEGLAN SODU’ OR ‘SODU WODOROWEGLAN’  OR ‘NATRIUMHYDROGENKARBONAT’ OR ‘NATRIUMWATERSTOFCARBONAAT’ OR  ‘NATRIUMWATERSOFCARBONAAT’ OR ‘NATRIUMBICARBONAAT’ OR ‘NATRIUM BICARBONAAT’ OR  ‘SODIUM HYDROGEN CARBONATE’ OR ‘NATRIJA HIDROGENKARBONATS’ OR ‘NĀTRIJA  HIDROGĒNKARBONĀTS’ OR ‘NATRIO VANDENILIO KARBONATAS’ OR ‘NATRII HYDROGENOCARBONAS’  OR ‘NATRII BICARBONAS’ OR ‘SODIO BICARBONATO’ OR ‘IDROGENOCARBONATO DI SODIO’ OR  ‘SODIO IDROGENO CARBONATO’ OR ‘BICARBONATO DI SODIO’ OR ‘NATRÍUM VETNI CARBONATE’ OR  ‘NATRÍUMVETNISKARBÓNAT’ OR ‘NATRIUM HIDROGENIKARBONAT’ OR ‘NÁTRIUM -HIDROGÉN - KARBONÁT’ OR ‘NÁTRIUM HIDROGÉN KARBONÁT’ OR ‘NATRIJEV HIDROGENKARBONAT’ OR ‘NATRIJEV  BIKARBONAT’ OR ‘BICARBONATE DE SOUDE’ OR ‘BICARBONATE DE SODIUM’ OR  ‘HYDROGÉNOCARBONATE DE SODIUM’ OR ‘SODIUM, BICARBONATE DE’ OR ‘SODIUM (BICARBONATE  DE)’ OR ‘NATRIUMVETYKARBONAATTI’ OR ‘NAATRIUMVESINIKKARBONAAT’ OR  ‘NATRIUMHYDROGENCARBONAT’ OR ‘HIDRÓGENO CARBONATO DE SODIO’ OR  ‘HIDRÓGENOCARBONATO DE SODIO’ OR ‘HIDROGENOCARBONATO DE SODIO’ OR ‘BICARBONATO DE  SODIO’ OR ‘BICARBONATO SODICO’ OR ‘CARBONATO DE HIDRÓGENO DE SODIO’ OR ‘BICARBONATO  SÓDICO’ OR ‘NATRIUM BICARBONATE’ OR ‘NATRIUMHYDROGENCARBONAT’ OR  ‘NATRIUMBICARBONAT’ OR ‘BICARBONATO DE SODIO’ OR ‘NATRIUMHYDROGENCARBONAT’ OR  ‘HYDROGENUHLIČITAN SODNÝ’ OR ‘NATRII HYDROGENCARBONAS’ OR ‘HYDROGEN UHLICITAN  SODNY’ OR ‘ALGINATE DE SODIUM/BICARBONATE DE SODIUM’ OR ‘ALKALIGEN’:tn OR ‘ATKINSONS &  BARKERS INFANT GRIPE MIXTURE’:tn OR ‘BICANORM’:tn OR ‘BICARBONAT DE SODIU’:tn OR  ‘BICARBONATE DE SODIUM’:tn OR ‘BICARBONATO’:tn OR ‘BLANEL’:tn OR ‘CARBALAX’:tn OR  ‘CARMINATIVO’:tn OR ‘CYMALON’:tn OR ‘DINNEFORDS BABY GRIPE MIXTURE’:tn OR ‘DINNEFORDS  GRIPE MIXTURE’:tn OR ‘DINNEFORDS INFANT GRIPE MIXTURE’:tn OR ‘DUOGAS’:tn OR ‘EDUCTYL  ADULTES’:tn OR ‘EDUCTYL ENFANTS’:tn OR ‘ENO’:tn OR ‘GASTROCOTE’:tn OR ‘GAVISCON BABY’:tn  OR ‘GRIPE MIXTURE’:tn OR ‘HECTONONA ORBA’:tn OR ‘HYDROGENUHLIČITAN SODNÝ BRAUN’:tn OR  ‘JUSTEGAS’:tn OR ‘KAOLIN MIXTURE BP’:tn OR ‘MAGNESIUM TRISILICATE MIXTURE BP’:tn OR  ‘NATRIUM BICARBONICUM’:tn OR ‘NATRIUM -HYDROGEN -CARBONICUM PHARMAMAGIST’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 205/368   ‘NATRIUMALGINAAT / NATRIUMBICARBONAAT UNITHER’:tn OR ‘NATRIUMBIKARBONAT’:tn OR  ‘NATRIUMBIKARBONAT ’:tn OR ‘NATRIUMBIKARBONAT ISOTONISK’:tn OR ‘NEO BABY GRIPE  MIXTURE’:tn OR ‘NEPHROTRANS’:tn OR ‘NÁTRIUM -HIDROGÉNKARBONÁT BRAUN’:tn OR ‘ORIGINAL  BULLRICH SALZ’:tn OR ‘RELAXIT’:tn OR ‘SAL DE FRUTA ENO’:tn OR ‘SAMARIN’:tn OR ‘SAUSĀ  MIKSTŪRA PRET KLEPU’:tn OR ‘SNUFFLEBABE GRIPE MIXTURE’:tn OR ‘SODIO BICARBONATO’:tn OR  ‘SODIUM BICARBONATE’:tn OR ‘SOLUZIONE CARDIOPLEGICA MONICO’:tn OR ‘SOLUZIONE PER  EMODIALISI CONCENTRATA BASICA GALENICA SENESE’:tn OR ‘TRIBONAT’:tn OR ‘VENOFUSIN  BICARBONATO’:tn OR ‘WOODWARDS GRIPE’:tn OR ‘WOODWARDS’:tn OR ‘ALKA -SELTZER  HEARTBURN’:tn OR ‘BAROS’:tn OR ‘BICANORM’:tn OR ‘BICARBONATE CONCENTRATE D17000’:tn OR  ‘BICART’:tn OR ‘ENO’:tn OR ‘LECICARBON’:tn OR ‘MEYLON’:tn OR ‘NATRIUMBICARBONATE’:tn OR  ‘NATRIUMBIKARBONAT’:tn OR ‘NEPHROTRANS’:tn OR ‘SAL DE FRUTA ENO’:tn OR ‘SAMARIN’:tn OR  ‘SODAMINT’:tn OR ‘SODIBIC’:tn OR ‘URAL’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   171.  Triamcinolone   ‘TRIAMCINOLONE’ OR ‘TRIAN CINOLONA’ OR ‘TRIAMCYNOLON’ OR ‘TRIAMCINOLONS’ OR  ‘TRIAMCINOLONAS’ OR ‘TRIAMCINOLONUM’ OR ‘TRIARN CINOLONE’ OR ‘TRIAMCINOLON’ OR  ‘TRIAMCINOLONA’ OR ‘TRIAMCINOLON’ OR ‘ADCORTYL INTRA -ARTICULAR/INTRADERMAL’ :tn OR  ‘AFTAB’:tn OR ‘AFTACH’:tn OR ‘ALBICORT’:tn OR ‘ALDODERMA’:tn OR ‘CEMALYT’:tn OR  ‘CORTNASAL’:tn OR ‘CREMOR TRIAMCINOLONACETONIDE’:tn OR ‘DELPHICORT’:tn OR  ‘DERMOMYCIN’:tn OR ‘DERMOMYCIN CORT’:tn OR ‘DIRAHIST’:tn OR ‘EPICUTANTEST -TROLAB  D2486’:tn OR ‘EPIPEVISONE’:tn OR ‘FTOROCORT’:tn OR ‘HEXATRIONE’:tn OR ‘KATAVAL’:tn OR  ‘KENACOMB’:tn OR ‘KENACORT’:tn OR ‘KENALOG’:tn OR ‘KORTIKOID -’:tn OR ‘LEDERMIX’:tn OR  ‘LEDERSPAN’:tn OR ‘LINOLACORT TRIAM’:tn OR ‘MYCOLOG’:tn OR ‘NASACORT’:tn OR ‘NASATRIM’:tn  OR ‘NASOFAST’:tn OR ‘NESFARE’:tn OR ‘NIDOFLOR’:tn OR ‘PAR’:tn OR ‘PEVISON’:tn OR ‘PEVISONE’:tn  OR ‘POLCORTOLON’:tn OR ‘POLCORTOLONE’:tn OR ‘POSITON’:tn OR ‘PROCTOSTEROID’:tn OR ‘SOLU - VOLON A’:tn OR ‘TAIOFTAL’:tn OR ‘TRIACORT’:tn OR ‘TRIAM’:tn OR ‘TRIAMCINOLON - VASELINECRÈME’:tn OR ‘TRIAMCINOLONACETONIDE’:tn OR ‘TRIAMCINOLONACETONIDECRÈME’:tn OR  ‘TRIAMCREME’:tn OR ‘TRIAMGALEN’:tn OR ‘TRIAMHEXAL’:tn OR ‘TRIAMSALBE’:tn OR ‘TRIAMVIRGI’:tn  OR ‘TRIESENCE’:tn OR ‘TRISPAN’:tn OR ‘TROLAB E2486’:tn OR ‘VOLON’:tn OR ‘VOLONIMAT’:tn OR  ‘ZURE OORDRUPPELS MET TRIAMCINOLONACETONIDE’:tn OR ‘ABSORBASE’:tn OR ‘AFTACH’:tn OR  ‘ALLERNAZE’:tn OR ‘APHTHASEAL’:tn OR ‘ARISTOCORT’:tn OR ‘ARISTOSPAN’:tn OR ‘AZMACORT’:tn OR  ‘CREMOR’:tn OR ‘DELPHICORT’:tn OR ‘DERMASORB -TA’:tn OR ‘EPIDERM’:tn OR ‘KENACOMB’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 206/368   ‘KENACORT’:tn OR ‘KENALOG’:tn OR ‘KETRICIN’:tn OR ‘LEDERCORT’:tn OR ‘LEDERLON’:tn OR  ‘MAQAID’:tn OR ‘METORAL’:tn OR ‘MYCOLOG’:tn OR ‘NASACORT’:tn OR ‘ORACORT’:tn OR  ‘ORAMEDY’:tn OR ‘OTOCOMB OTIC’:tn OR ‘PEVISONE’:tn OR ‘POLCORTOLON’:tn OR ‘SHINCORT’:tn OR  ‘SIMACORT’:tn OR ‘STEROCORT’:tn OR ‘TELNASE’:tn OR ‘TRIADERM’:tn OR ‘TRIAM’:tn OR ‘TRIAM  LICHTENSTEIN’:tn OR ‘TRIAMCINOLONE’:tn OR ‘TRIAMCORT’:tn OR ‘TRIAMHEXAL’:tn OR ‘TRIANEX’:tn  OR ‘TRICORT’:tn OR ‘TRICORTONE’:tn OR ‘TRIDERM TRIAMCINOLONE ACETONIDE’:tn OR  ‘TRIESENCE’:tn OR ‘TRILAC’:tn OR ‘WAPLON’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   172.  Nimesulide   ‘NIMESULIDE’ OR ‘NIMESULIDUM’ OR ‘NIMÉSULIDE’ OR ‘NIMESULID’ OR ‘NIMESULID’ OR  ‘NIMESULIDĂ’ OR ‘NIMESULIDA’ OR ‘NIMESULID’ OR ‘NIMESULĪDS’ OR ‘NIMESULIDAS’ OR  ‘NIMESULIDUM’ OR ‘NIMESULIDE’ OR ‘NIMESZULID’ OR ‘NIMÉSULIDE’ OR ‘NIMESULIDA’ OR  ‘NIMESULID’ OR ‘ACTALIDE’:tn OR ‘ALGIMESIL’:tn OR ‘ALGOLIDER’:tn OR ‘ALLDONE’:tn OR  ‘APONIL’:tn OR ‘AULIN’:tn OR ‘AULIN’:tn OR ‘BIOXIDOL’:tn OR ‘DISCORID’:tn OR ‘DOLORILGEL’:tn OR  ‘DONULIDE’:tn OR ‘EFRIDOL’:tn OR ‘ERREFLOG’:tn OR ‘FANSULIDE’:tn OR ‘FLADALGIN’:tn OR  ‘FLOLID’:tn OR ‘ISODOL’:tn OR ‘KARTAL’:tn OR ‘LALIDE’:tn OR ‘LEMESILIN’:tn OR ‘MESULID’:tn OR  ‘MINESULIN’:tn OR ‘MYXINA’:tn OR ‘NERELID’:tn OR ‘NIMED’:tn OR ‘NIMEDEX’:tn OR ‘NIMELID’:tn OR  ‘NIMELIDE’:tn OR ‘NIMESIL’:tn OR ‘NIMESULENE’:tn OR ‘NIMESULIDA’:tn OR ‘NIMESULIDE’:tn OR  ‘NIMETAXIN’:tn OR ‘NIMIGEL’:tn OR ‘NIMM’:tn OR ‘PANTAMES’:tn OR ‘REMOV’:tn OR ‘SOLVING’:tn OR  ‘SPECILID’:tn OR ‘SULIDAMOR’:tn OR ‘TRANZICALM’:tn OR ‘VENTOR’:tn OR ‘VOLONTEN’:tn OR  ‘XILOX’:tn OR ‘ΜΙΝ -Α-PON’:tn OR ‘AULIN’:tn OR ‘BIOLIN’:tn OR ‘COXTRAL’:tn OR ‘ESKAFLAM’:tn OR  ‘FLAMIDE’:tn OR ‘MESULID’:tn OR ‘NIMED’:tn OR ‘NIMELID’:tn OR ‘NIMELIDE’:tn OR ‘NIMESIL’:tn OR  ‘NIMESULIDA’:tn OR ‘NIMESULIDE’:tn OR ‘NIMULID’:tn OR ‘NISE’:tn OR ‘NISULID’:tn OR ‘RESULIN’:tn  OR ‘SCAFLAM’:tn OR ‘SEVERIN’:tn OR ‘VENTOR’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 207/368   'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   173.  Cefotaxime   ‘CEFOTAXIME’ OR ‘CEFOTAXIMA’ OR ‘CEFOTAXIM’ OR ‘CE FOTAKSĪMS’ OR ‘CEFOTAXIMUM’ OR  ‘CÉFOTAXIME’ OR ‘TSEFOTAKSIIM’ OR ‘CEFOTAXIMA’ OR ‘ABRICEF’:tn OR ‘ALTACEF’:tn OR  ‘ANTADAR’:tn OR ‘BATIXIM’:tn OR ‘BIOTAKSYM’:tn OR ‘CEFALEKOL’:tn OR ‘CEFOMIT’:tn OR  ‘CEFOTAKSIM LEK’:tn OR ‘CEFOTAXIMA’:tn OR  ‘CEFOX’:tn OR ‘CILTIREN’:tn OR ‘CLAFORAN’:tn OR  ‘CLAFORAN ‘:tn OR ‘DELIUS’:tn OR ‘GLORYFEN’:tn OR ‘LETYNOL’:tn OR ‘LEXOR’:tn OR ‘LIRGOSIN’:tn  OR ‘MAKROCEF’:tn OR ‘PHACOCEF’:tn OR ‘RESIBELACTA’:tn OR ‘SALOCEF’:tn OR ‘SEFOTAK’:tn OR  ‘SOLUBILAX’:tn OR ‘SPECTROCEF’:tn OR ‘SPIROSINE’:tn OR ‘STOPAREN’:tn OR ‘SYNTOXIME’:tn OR  ‘TAXIME’:tn OR ‘TIROTAX’:tn OR ‘VALORAN’:tn OR ‘VENCYP’:tn OR ‘ZARIVIZ’:tn OR ‘ZIMANEL’:tn OR  ‘AXIMAD’:tn OR ‘BIOTAKSYM’:tn OR ‘CEFABOL’:tn OR ‘CEFANTRAL’:tn OR ‘CEFOSIN’:tn OR  ‘CEFOTAX’:tn OR ‘CEFOTAXIM’:tn OR ‘CEFOTAXIME’:tn OR ‘CEFTAX’:tn OR ‘CLAFOBRIN’:tn OR  ‘CLAFORAN’:tn OR ‘LEXOR’:tn OR ‘SEFOTAK’:tn OR ‘TALCEF’:tn OR ‘TAXIM’:tn OR ‘TAXIMAX’:tn AND  ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti  OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   174.  Gentamicin   ‘GENTAMICIN’ OR ‘2 -[4,6-DIAMINO -3-[3-AMINO -6-(1-METHYLAMINOETHYL)OXAN -2-YL]OXY -2- HYDROXYCYCLOHEXYL]OXY -5-METHYL -4-METHYLAMINOOXANE -3,5-DIOL’ OR ‘GENTAMICIN’ OR  ‘GENTAMICIN’ OR ‘GENTAMICINA’ OR ‘GENTAMICINA’ OR ‘GENTAMICÍN’ OR ‘GENTAMICINĂ’ OR  ‘GENTAMICINA’ OR ‘GENTAMYCYNY’ OR ‘GENTAMICIN’ OR ‘GENTAMICIN’ OR ‘GENTAMICIN’ OR  ‘GENTAMICINO’ OR ‘GENTAMICINUM’ OR ‘GENTAMICINA’ OR ‘GENTAMICIN’ OR ‘GENTAMICIN’ OR  ‘GENTAMICIN’ OR ‘GENTAMICINE’ OR ‘GENTAMISIINIA’ OR ‘GENTAMISIINI’:tn OR ‘GENTAMICINA’:tn  OR ‘GENTAMICIN’:tn OR ‘GENTAMICIN’:tn OR ‘GENTAMICINI’:tn OR ‘HEXAMYCIN’:tn OR  ‘INDOBIOTIC’:tn OR ‘INFECTOGENTA’:tn OR ‘INTERDERM’:tn OR ‘MEGENTAL’:tn OR ‘NEMALIN’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 208/368   ‘NOVOTER GENTAMICINA’:tn OR ‘OFTALMOLOSA CUSÍ GENTAMICINA’:tn OR ‘REFOBACIN’:tn OR  ‘RIBOMICIN’:tn OR ‘SEPTOPAL’:tn OR ‘SULMYCIN’:tn OR ‘TACIGEN’:tn OR ‘TROLAB E2154’:tn OR  ‘ALCOMICIN’:tn OR ‘BETAGENTAM’:tn OR ‘CIDOMYCIN’:tn OR ‘ELTACIN’:tn OR ‘GARAMICINA’:tn OR  ‘GARAMYCIN’:tn OR ‘GENOPTIC’:tn OR ‘GENSUMYCIN’:tn OR ‘GENTA’:tn OR ‘GENTACIN’:tn OR  ‘GENTACOLL’:tn OR ‘GENTAK’:tn OR ‘GENTAL’:tn OR ‘GENTALLINE’:tn OR ‘GENTALOL’:tn OR  ‘GENTALYN’:tn OR ‘GENTAMICIN’:tn OR ‘GENTAMICIN -K’:tn OR ‘GENTAMICINA’:tn OR  ‘GENTAMICINE’:tn OR ‘GENTAMIN’:tn OR ‘GENTAMYCIN -MP’:tn OR ‘GENTAX’:tn OR ‘GENTICIN’:tn OR  ‘GENTREX’:tn OR ‘GERNART’:tn OR ‘LUINESIN’:tn OR ‘OPHTAGRAM’:tn OR ‘OPTIGEN’:tn OR  ‘PROVISUAL’:tn OR ‘REFOBACIN’:tn OR ‘VIAFLEX’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   175.  Lorazepam   ‘LORAZEPAM’ OR ‘LORAZEPAMUM’ OR ‘LORAZEPÁM’ OR ‘LORATSEPAAMIA’ OR ‘AKIVASS’:tn OR  ‘ANSILOR’:tn OR ‘ANXIAR’:tn OR ‘ATIVAN’:tn OR ‘CONTROL’:tn OR ‘DADUMIR’:tn OR  ‘DELORAZEPAM’:tn OR ‘DONIX’:tn OR ‘DORM’:tn OR ‘EN’:tn OR ‘LORALIN’:tn OR ‘LORAM’:tn OR  ‘LORANS’:tn OR ‘LORANXIL’:tn OR ‘LORAZEPAM’:tn OR ‘LORAZETOP’:tn OR ‘LORAZIUM’:tn OR  ‘LORENIN’:tn OR ‘LORIVAN’:tn OR ‘LORSEDAL’:tn OR ‘LORSILAN’:tn OR ‘LORXAGEN’:tn OR  ‘MODIUM’:tn OR ‘ORFIDAL’:tn OR ‘PLACINORAL’:tn OR ‘RIALAM’:tn OR ‘RILEX’:tn OR ‘SERENASE’:tn  OR ‘TAVOR’:tn OR ‘TEMESTA’:tn OR ‘TITUS’:tn OR ‘TOLID’:tn OR ‘ZELORAM’:tn OR ‘APO  LORAZEPAM’:tn OR ‘ATIVAN’:tn OR ‘ATIVAN EXPIDET’:tn OR ‘AZUROGEN’:tn OR ‘CONTROL’:tn OR  ‘DELORAZEPAM’:tn OR ‘EMOTIVAL (LORAZEPAM)’:tn OR ‘IDALPREM’:tn OR ‘LORAFEN’:tn OR  ‘LORAM’:tn OR ‘LORAMET’:tn OR ‘LORAPAM’:tn OR ‘LORASIFAR’:tn OR ‘LORAX’:tn OR ‘LORAZEM’:tn OR  ‘LORAZEPAM’:tn OR ‘LORENIN’:tn OR ‘LOREZAN’:tn OR ‘LORIVAN’:tn OR ‘ORFIDAL’:tn OR ‘PRO - LORAZEPAM’:tn OR ‘SERENASE’:tn OR ‘SILENCE’:tn OR ‘TAVOR’:tn OR ‘TEMESTA’:tn OR  ‘TRANQIPAM’:tn OR ‘TRAPAX’:tn OR ‘U -PAN’:tn OR ‘WYPAX’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 209/368   'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   176.  Granisetron   ‘GRANISETRON’ OR ‘ΓΡΑΝΙΣΕΤΡΌΝΗ’ OR ‘GRANISETRONUM’ OR ‘GRANISÉTRON’ OR ‘GRANISETRÓN’  OR ‘EMEGAR’ OR ‘GRAFTOR’ OR ‘GRANI’ OR ‘GRANIGEN’ OR ‘GRANISETRON’ OR ‘GRANISETRON -GRY’  OR ‘GRANISSETROM’ OR ‘GRANITRON’:tn OR ‘GRANORED’:tn OR ‘GRA’:tn OR ‘RASETRON’:tn OR  ‘RIBOSETRON’:tn OR ‘SANCUSO’:tn OR ‘VIATRINIL’:tn OR ‘РАСЕТРОН’:tn OR ‘EMETRİL’:tn OR  ‘GRANEXA’:tn OR ‘GRANICIP’:tn OR ‘GRANISETRON’:tn OR ‘KEVATRIL’:tn OR ‘KYTRIL’:tn OR ‘KYTRIL  INFUSION’:tn OR ‘RASETRON’:tn OR ‘SANCUSO’ ‘GRANISETRON’:tn OR ‘ΓΡΑΝΙΣΕΤΡΌΝΗ’:tn OR  ‘GRANISETRONUM’:tn OR ‘GRANISÉTRON’:tn OR ‘GRANISETRÓN’:tn OR ‘EMEGAR’:tn OR ‘GRAFTOR’:tn  OR ‘GRANI’:tn OR ‘GRANIGEN’:tn OR ‘GRANISETRON’:tn OR ‘GRANISETRON -GRY’:tn OR  ‘GRANISSETROM’:tn OR ‘GRANITRON’:tn OR ‘GRANORED’:tn OR ‘GRA’:tn OR ‘RASETRON’:tn OR  ‘RIBOSETRON’:tn OR ‘SANCUSO’:tn OR ‘VIATRINIL’:tn OR ‘РАСЕТРОН’:tn OR ‘EMETRİL’:tn OR  ‘GRANEXA’:tn OR ‘GRANICIP’:tn OR ‘GRANISETRON’:tn OR ‘KEVATRIL’:tn OR ‘KYTRIL’:tn OR ‘KYTRIL  INFUSION’:tn OR ‘RASETRON’:tn OR ‘SANCUSO’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   177.  Pioglitazone   ‘PIOGL ITAZONE’ OR ‘PIOGLITAZONUM’ OR ‘ATROLEX’:tn OR ‘DIABETALAN’:tn OR ‘DIABIOM’:tn OR  ‘GLETOMEL’:tn OR ‘GLIDIPION’:tn OR ‘GLITACT’:tn OR ‘GLIZOFAR’:tn OR ‘GLIZON’:tn OR  ‘GLUKOWILL’:tn OR ‘GLUSTIN’:tn OR ‘LISPECIP’:tn OR ‘MEDIGLITAZON’:tn OR ‘MEGLISPES’:tn OR  ‘MELIZON’:tn OR ‘PAGLITAZ’:tn OR ‘PIGLEBIRONE’:tn OR ‘PIGLETEC’:tn OR ‘PIMARIN’:tn OR  ‘PIODIGLIN’:tn OR ‘PIOGLITAZON’:tn OR ‘PIOGLITAZONĂ’:tn OR ‘PIZONA’:tn OR ‘PYADIAB’:tn OR  ‘RIODIN’:tn OR ‘SAHAR’:tn OR ‘SEPIOGLIN’:tn OR ‘SEPIZON’:tn OR ‘TAZMEGLIN’:tn OR ‘ZATRIP’:tn OR  ‘ZIPION’:tn OR ‘ACTOS’:tn OR ‘AGLITIL’:tn OR ‘PIOGLITAZONE’:tn OR ‘DROPIA’:tn OR ‘GLITACAR -1’:tn     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 210/368   OR ‘GLUSTIN’:tn OR ‘ -PIOGLITAZONE’:tn OR ‘OSENI’:tn OR ‘PIOTAZ’:tn OR ‘PIOZONE’:tn OR  ‘UTMOS’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   178.  Amisulpride   ‘AMISULPRIDE’ OR ‘AMISULPRIDĂ’ OR ‘AMISSULPRIDA’ OR ‘AMISULPRIDAS’ OR ‘AMI SULPRIDUM’ OR   ‘AMISULPRIDA’ OR ‘AMISULPRID’ OR ‘AKTIPROL’:tn OR ‘ALONET’:tn OR ‘ALPRIDE’:tn OR ‘AMILIA’:tn  OR ‘AMIPRID’:tn OR ‘AMISAN’:tn OR ‘AMISULID’:tn OR ‘AMISULPISAN’:tn OR ‘AMISULPRID’:tn OR  ‘AMISULPRID -’:tn OR ‘AMISULPRIDE’:tn OR ‘AMISULPRIDLICH’:tn OR ‘AMISUPLRID NEURAXPHARM’:tn  OR ‘AMITREX’:tn OR ‘AMSULGEN’:tn OR ‘AMISULPRID’:tn OR ‘APOSUPRID’:tn OR ‘ARACALM ARAFARMA  GROUP’:tn OR ‘DENIBAN’:tn OR ‘FORZAMED’:tn OR ‘ISOFREDIL’:tn OR ‘MIDORA’:tn OR ‘NODASIC’:tn  OR ‘PRIDOSIL’:tn OR ‘SOCIAN’:tn OR ‘SOLIAN’:tn OR ‘SULAMID’:tn OR ‘AMISULPRID’:tn OR  ‘AMISULPRIDE’:tn OR ‘AMITREX’:tn OR ‘DENIBAN’:tn OR ‘SOCIAN’:tn OR ‘SOLIAN’:tn AND ('adverse  drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR  'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   179.  Clotrimazole   ‘CLOTRIMAZOLE’ OR ‘KLOTRIMAZOL’ OR ‘KLOTRIMAZOL’ OR ‘CLOTRIMAZOL’ OR ‘KLOTRIMAZOLS’ OR  ‘CLOTRIMAZOLUM’ OR ‘CLOTRIMAZOLO’ OR ‘KLOTRIMAZOL’ OR ‘KLOTRIMAZOL’ OR ‘KLOTRIMAZOLU’     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 211/368   OR ‘CLOTRIMAZOLUM’ OR ‘AKNECOLOR KRÉMPASTA’:tn OR ‘AKNECOLOR LIGHT  KRÉMPASTA’:tn OR  ‘AKNECOLOR LIGHT KRÉMPASTA’:tn OR ‘ALBICAN’:tn OR ‘ANTIFUNGOL’:tn OR ‘ANTIMICOTICO  SAME’:tn OR ‘APOCANDA’:tn OR ‘APOCANDA SPRAY’:tn OR ‘BOOTS THRUSH, THRUSH RELIEF’:tn OR  ‘CANDIBENE’:tn OR ‘CANESMED’:tn OR ‘CANESPIE’:tn OR ‘CANESTENE DERM’:tn OR ‘CANESTENE  GYN’:tn OR ‘CANESTÉN’:tn OR ‘CANGIL’:tn OR ‘CANIFUG’:tn OR ‘CANIFUG CREMOLUM’:tn OR  ‘CANVAG’:tn OR ‘CLODERM’:tn OR ‘CLOTRI’:tn OR ‘CLOTRIGALEN’:tn OR ‘CLOTRIKAD’:tn OR  ‘CLOTRIMAZOL’:tn OR ‘CLOTRIMAZOLE’:tn OR ‘CLOTRIMAZOLUM’:tn OR ‘CLOTRIMAZOLUM  SANITAS’:tn OR ‘CLOTRIMAZOLUM ZIAJA’:tn OR ‘COTRIMAZOLE CHELONIA HEALTHCARE’:tn OR  ‘CUTISTAD’:tn OR ‘DIOMICETE’:tn OR ‘EPICUTANTEST -TROLAB D2389’:tn OR ‘FACTODIN’:tn OR  ‘FUNGIDERMO’:tn OR ‘FUNGIDEXAN’:tn OR ‘FUNGIKAD’:tn OR ‘FUNGIZID ‘:tn OR ‘GILT’:tn OR ‘GINE - CANESMED’:tn OR ‘GINE -CANESTÉN’:tn OR ‘GINEINTIMA CLOTRIACTIVE’:tn OR ‘GINO -CANESTEN’:tn  OR ‘GYNO -CANESTEN’:tn OR ‘IMAZOL’:tn OR ‘JENAMAZOL’:tn OR ‘KADEFUNGIN’:tn OR  ‘KLOTRIMASOOL GSK’:tn OR ‘MICOLYSIN’:tn OR ‘MYCOFUG’:tn OR ‘MYCOHYDRALIN’:tn OR  ‘MYCORIL’:tn OR ‘MYKOFUNGIN’:tn OR ‘NALBIX’:tn OR ‘ONYMYKEN’:tn OR ‘PLIMYCOL’:tn OR ‘PLIVA  ATHLETES FOOT; GALPHARM ATHLETES FOOT’:tn OR ‘SD -HERMAL’:tn OR ‘TROLAB E2389’:tn OR  ‘UROMYKOL’:tn OR ‘VAGISAN MYKO KOMBI’:tn OR ‘WARIMAZOL DERM’:tn OR ‘WARIMAZOL VAG’:tn  OR ‘КАНЕСТЕН’:tn OR ‘AGISTEN’:tn OR ‘CANASONE’:tn OR ‘CANDEX’:tn OR ‘CANDID’:tn OR  ‘CLODERM’:tn OR ‘CLONEA’:tn OR ‘CLOTRIMADERM’:tn OR ‘CLOTRIMAZOL’:tn OR ‘CLOZOLE’:tn OR  ‘ELCID’:tn OR ‘EMPECID’:tn OR ‘FUNGOTOX’:tn OR ‘GINO -CANESTEN’:tn OR ‘GYNE -LOTRIMIN’:tn OR  ‘GYNO -CANESTEN’:tn OR ‘IMAZOL’:tn OR ‘IMIDIL’:tn OR ‘LOTREMIN’:tn OR ‘LOTRIMIN’:tn OR  ‘MEDASPOR’:tn OR ‘MYCELEX’:tn OR ‘MYKOFUNGIN’:tn OR ‘ORALTEN’:tn OR ‘TAON’:tn OR  ‘TERRASIL’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   180.  Remifentanil   ‘REMIFENTANIL’ OR ‘METHYL 1 -(2-METHOXYCARBONYLETHYL) -4-(PHENYL -PROPANOYL - AMINO)PIPERIDINE -4-CARBOXYLATE’ OR ‘REMIFENTANILUM’ OR ‘RÉMIFENTANIL’ OR ‘REMIFENTANILO’  OR ‘REMIFENTANIL’ OR ‘REMIFENTANIL’ OR ‘DORMIDEN’:tn OR ‘FENABLOX’:tn OR ‘REMIFENTANIL’:tn  OR ‘REMIFENTANYL’:tn OR ‘ULTIVA’:tn OR ‘ULTIZEN’:tn OR ‘ULTIVA’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 212/368   terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   181.  Spironolactone   ‘SPIRONOLACTONE’ OR ‘SPIRONOLAKTON’ OR ‘SPIRONOLAKTÓNU’ OR ‘SPIRONOLACTONA’ OR  ‘ESPIRONOLACTONA’ OR ‘SPIRONOLAKTONU’ OR ‘SPIRONOLAKTON’ OR ‘SPIRONOLAKTONO’ OR  ‘SPIRONOLACTONUM’ OR ‘SPIRONOLATTONE’ OR ‘SPÍRÓNÓLAKTÓN’ OR ‘SPÍRÓNÓLAKTÓNI’ OR  ‘SPIRONOLACTONE’ OR ‘SPIRONOLAKTONI’ OR ‘ESPIRONOLACTONA’ OR ‘SPIRONOLACTON’ OR  ‘SPIRONOLACTON’ OR ‘SPIRONOLACTONUM’ OR ‘ALDACTACINE’:tn OR ‘ALDACTAZINE’:tn OR  ‘ALDACTONE’:tn OR ‘ALSPIRON’:tn OR ‘ALTIZIDE SPIRONOLACTONE’:tn OR ‘FINOSPIR’:tn OR  ‘HEXALACTON’:tn OR ‘JENASPIRON’:tn OR ‘MEDOSPIR’:tn OR ‘OSYROL’:tn OR ‘SPIRETIC’:tn OR  ‘SPIRIX’:tn OR ‘SPIRO -CT’:tn OR ‘SPIROBENE’:tn OR ‘SPIROBETA’:tn OR ‘SPIROCTAN’:tn OR  ‘SPIROCTAZINE’:tn OR ‘SPIROGAMMA’:tn OR ‘SPIROHEXAL’:tn OR ‘SPIROLANG’:tn OR ‘SPIROLON’:tn  OR ‘SPIRON’:tn OR ‘SPIRONO’:tn OR ‘SPIRONOL’:tn OR ‘SPIRONOLACTONA’:tn OR  ‘SPIRONOLACTONE’:tn OR ‘SPIRONOLACTONĂ’:tn OR ‘SPITONEP’:tn OR ‘URACTONE’:tn OR  ‘URACTONUM’:tn OR ‘VEROSPIRON’:tn OR ‘ALDACTACINE’:tn OR ‘ALDACTAZINE’:tn OR  ‘ALDACTIDE’:tn OR ‘ALDACTONE’:tn OR ‘ALDOLEO’:tn OR ‘ALDOSPIRONE’:tn OR ‘ALMATOL’:tn OR  ‘APORASNON’:tn OR ‘DIACQUA’:tn OR ‘ESPIRONOLACTONA’:tn OR ‘HUMA -SPIROTON’:tn OR ‘HYLES’:tn  OR ‘LACALMIN’:tn OR ‘LETONAL’:tn OR ‘MACACY -A’:tn OR ‘MERLACTONE’:tn OR ‘NOIDOUBLE’:tn OR  ‘NORACTONE’:tn OR ‘OSYROL’:tn OR ‘PIROLACTON’:tn OR ‘SPILACTONE’:tn OR ‘SPIRACTIN’:tn OR  ‘SPIRIX’:tn OR ‘SPIRO’:tn OR ‘SPIROCTAN’:tn OR ‘SPIROCTAZINE’:tn OR ‘SPIROLACTON’:tn OR  ‘SPIRON’:tn OR ‘SPIRONO’:tn OR ‘SPIRONOL’:tn OR ‘SPIRONOLACTON’:tn OR ‘SPIRONOLAKTON’:tn OR  ‘-SPIRONOLACTONE’:tn OR ‘VEROSPILACTONE’:tn OR ‘VEROSPIRON’:tn OR ‘VIVITAR’:tn OR  ‘XENALON’:tn OR ‘YOULACTONE’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 213/368   OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   182.  Tacrolimus   ‘TACROLIMUS’ OR ‘TACROLÍMUS’ OR ‘TAKROLIMUS’ OR ‘TACROLIMUSUM’ OR ‘TAKROLIMUSZ’ OR  ‘ADOPORT’:tn OR ‘ADPORT’:tn OR ‘ADVAGRAF’:tn OR ‘CAPEXION’:tn OR ‘CIDIMUS’:tn OR  ‘CRILOMUS’:tn OR ‘ENVARSUS’:tn OR ‘GECROL’:tn OR ‘MODIGRAF’:tn OR ‘PERIXIS’:tn OR  ‘PROGRAF’:tn OR ‘PROGRAFT’:tn OR ‘PROTOPIC’:tn OR ‘TACNI’:tn OR ‘TACPAN’:tn OR ‘TACRO -CELL’:tn  OR ‘TACROCEL’:tn OR ‘TACROTECT’:tn OR ‘TAKON’:tn OR ‘TALIXIMUN’:tn OR ‘TARTRIME’:tn OR  ‘TRACSUS’:tn OR ‘ADVAGRAF’:tn OR ‘ASTAGRAF’:tn OR ‘CIDIMUS’:tn OR ‘GRACEPTOR’:tn OR  ‘HECORIA’:tn OR ‘MODIGRAF’:tn OR ‘PROGRAF’:tn OR ‘PROGRAFT’:tn OR ‘PROTOPIC’:tn OR  ‘TACROCEL’:tn OR ‘TACROLIMUS’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim         European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 214/368   183.  Dorzolamide   ‘DORZOLAMIDE’ OR ‘DORZOLAMIDĂ’ OR ‘DORZOLAMID’ OR ‘DORZOLAMIDO’ OR ‘DORZOLAMIDUM’ OR  ‘DORZOLAMID’ OR ‘DORZOLAMIDOT’ OR ‘DORZOLAMIDA’ OR ‘DORZOLAMID’ OR ‘ARZOLAMID’:tn OR  ‘DOLOPT’:tn OR ‘DOMIDE’:tn OR ‘DORLAZEPT’:tn OR ‘DOROLAD’:tn OR ‘DORTOZ’:tn OR ‘DORZO - VISION’:tn OR ‘DORZOL’:tn OR ‘DORZOLAMID’:tn OR ‘DORZOLAMIDE’:tn OR ‘DORZOLEP’:tn OR  ‘DORZON’:tn OR ‘DORZOPT’:tn OR ‘DORZOSTILL’:tn OR ‘DOZOPRES’:tn OR ‘DOZOTENS’:tn OR  ‘DROPZOL’:tn OR ‘GALAX’:tn OR ‘NODOM’:tn OR ‘OFTIDOR’:tn OR ‘OPTODROP’:tn OR ‘OTINAN’:tn OR  ‘PROGLAU’:tn OR ‘REZLOD’:tn OR ‘ROZALIN’:tn OR ‘ROZDOL’:tn OR ‘TIDOCOMB’:tn OR ‘TRUSOPT’:tn  OR ‘TR kUSOPT OCUMETER PLUS’:tn OR ‘TRUSOPT PRESERVATIVE -FREE’:tn OR ‘TRUSOPT  UKONSERVERET’:tn OR ‘TRUSOPT -S’:tn OR ‘ULOM’:tn OR ‘ТРУСОПТ’:tn OR ‘DORZOLAMIDE’:tn OR  ‘TRUSOPT’:tn OR ‘TRUSOPT -S’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   184.  Rosuvastatin   ‘ROSUVASTATIN’ OR ‘ROSUVASTATÍN’ OR ‘ROSUVASTATINĂ’ OR ‘ROZUWASTATYNA’ OR  ‘ROSUVASTATĪNA’ OR ‘ROZUVASTATINAS’ OR ‘ROSUVASTATINUM’ OR ‘ROZUVASZTATIN’ OR  ‘ROSUVASTATINE’ OR ‘ROSUVASTATIIN’ OR ‘ROSUVASTATIN’ OR ‘ROSUVASTATIN’ OR ‘ACTAROSIN’:tn  OR ‘ROSUVASTATIN’:tn OR ‘BESSESIST’:tn OR ‘CELMANTIN’:tn OR ‘COUPET’:tn OR ‘CRESAGEN’:tn OR  ‘CRESEGEN’:tn OR ‘CROSUVO’:tn OR ‘DELIPID’:tn OR ‘DISEPKIT’:tn OR ‘EPRI’:tn OR ‘EXCELTIN’:tn OR  ‘IVIROSINA’:tn OR ‘MERTENIL’:tn OR ‘RIDLIP’:tn OR ‘ROMAZIC’:tn OR ‘ROSIX’:tn OR ‘ROSSTA’:tn OR  ‘ROSTAT’:tn OR ‘ROSTATIN’:tn OR ‘ROSUCARD’:tn OR ‘ROSUGEN ‘:tn OR ‘ROSUKARD’:tn OR  ‘ROSULIP’:tn OR ‘ROSUMOP’:tn OR ‘ROSUTEC’:tn OR ‘ROSU’:tn OR ‘ROSUTROX’:tn OR ‘ROSUVA’:tn OR  ‘ROSUVACARD’:tn OR ‘ROSUVANOR’:tn OR ‘ROSUVASTATIN’:tn OR ‘ROSUVASTATINĂ’:tn OR  ‘ROSUVEX’:tn OR ‘ROSUVISTAT’:tn OR ‘ROSVASTA’:tn OR ‘ROSWERA’:tn OR ‘ROTINVA’:tn OR  ‘ROVASTA’:tn OR ‘ROVASTAMED’:tn OR ‘ROVASYN’:tn OR ‘ROXARDIO’:tn OR ‘ROXERA’:tn OR  ‘ROXILIP’:tn OR ‘ROZUCOR’:tn OR ‘RUSTAVO’:tn OR ‘SORVASTA’:tn OR ‘STARCREST’:tn OR  ‘SUVARDIO’:tn OR ‘TILVISSOT’:tn OR ‘TINTAROS’:tn OR ‘TORUVASS’:tn OR ‘TUTUME’:tn OR ‘XETER’:tn  OR ‘ZAHRON’:tn OR ‘ZARANTA’:tn OR ‘ВОЗУСТАТ’:tn OR ‘ЗАРАНТА’:tn OR ‘РОВАСТА’:tn OR  ‘РОЗИСТАТ’:tn OR ‘CAVSTAT’:tn OR ‘CRESTOR’:tn OR ‘CROSUVA’:tn OR ‘MERTENIL’:tn OR  ‘PLENANCE’:tn OR ‘PMS -ROSUVASTATIN’:tn OR ‘PROVISACOR’:tn OR ‘RAN -ROSUVASTATIN’:tn OR  ‘ROSUCARD’:tn OR ‘ROSUCOR’:tn OR ‘ROSUFIX’:tn OR ‘ROSUVASTATIN’:tn OR ‘ROXERA’:tn OR  ‘ROZART’:tn OR ‘TREZOR’:tn OR ‘VENEX’:tn OR ‘VISACOR’:tn OR ‘VIVACOR’:tn AND ('adverse drug     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 215/368   reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   185.  Midazolam   ‘MIDAZOLAM’ OR ‘M IDAZOLAMO’ OR ‘MIDAZOLAMUM’ OR ‘BUCCOLAM’:tn OR ‘DAMIZOL’:tn OR  ‘DORMICUM’:tn OR ‘DORMIPNOL’:tn OR ‘DORMIXAL’:tn OR ‘FULSED’:tn OR ‘HYPNOVEL’:tn OR  ‘IPNOVEL’:tn OR ‘MIDANIUM’:tn OR ‘MIDAZOLAM’:tn OR ‘MIZORMIC’:tn OR ‘SOPODORM’:tn OR  ‘TALENTUM’:tn OR ‘VERSED’:tn OR ‘DORMICUM’:tn OR ‘DORMIRE’:tn OR ‘DORMONID’:tn OR  ‘FULSED’:tn OR ‘HYPNOVEL’:tn OR ‘MIDANIUM’:tn OR ‘MIDAZOL’:tn OR ‘MIDAZOLAM’:tn OR  ‘VERSED’:tn OR ‘ZOLAMID’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   186.  Verapamil   ‘VERAPAMIL’ OR ‘VERAPAMILUM’ OR ‘VÉRAPAMIL’ OR ‘VERAPAMILO’ OR ‘AKILEN’:tn OR ‘CAVERIL’:tn  OR ‘CORDAMIL’:tn OR ‘DURASOPTIN’:tn OR ‘FALICARD’:tn OR ‘FIBROCARD’:tn OR ‘HALF SECURON’:tn  OR ‘HEXASOPTIN’:tn OR ‘ISOPTIN’:tn OR ‘ISOPTINE’:tn OR ‘LEKOPTIN’:tn OR ‘LODIXAL’:tn OR  ‘MANIDON’:tn OR ‘MANIDÓN’:tn OR ‘SECURON’:tn OR ‘STAVERAN’:tn OR ‘TARKA’:tn OR ‘VERA’:tn OR  ‘VERA -TIL’:tn OR ‘VERAGAMMA’:tn OR ‘VERAHEXAL’:tn OR ‘VERALOC’:tn OR ‘VERAMEX’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 216/368   ‘VERAMIL’:tn OR ‘VERAP’:tn OR ‘VERAPABENE’:tn OR ‘VERAPRESS’:tn OR ‘VERASAL’:tn OR  ‘VERISOP’:tn OR ‘VERMIN’:tn OR ‘VEROGALID’:tn OR ‘VEROPTIN’:tn OR ‘VERPAMIL’:tn OR ‘VERTAB’:tn  OR ‘ТАРКA / ТАRKA’:tn OR ‘ANPEC’:tn OR ‘VERAP’:tn OR ‘CALAN’:tn OR ‘CALAN’:tn OR ‘CALCICARD’:tn  OR ‘CARDINORM’:tn OR ‘CORDILOX’:tn OR ‘COVERA’:tn OR ‘CRONOVERA’:tn OR ‘DILACORAN’:tn OR  ‘DILACORON’:tn OR ‘FALICARD’:tn OR ‘FINOPTIN’:tn OR ‘FLAMON’:tn OR ‘FLAMON’:tn OR  ‘HEXASOPTIN’:tn OR ‘IKACOR’:tn OR ‘IKAPRESS’:tn OR ‘ISOCOR’:tn OR ‘ISOPTIN’:tn OR ‘ISOPTINE’:tn  OR ‘MAGOTIRON’:tn OR ‘MANIDON’:tn OR ‘MANIDÓN’:tn OR ‘ -VERAPAMIL’:tn OR ‘PMS -VERAPAMIL’:tn  OR ‘QUASAR’:tn OR ‘RAVAMIL’:tn OR ‘TARKA’:tn OR ‘TRICEN’:tn OR ‘UDRAMIL’:tn OR ‘UNIVER’:tn OR  ‘VASOLAN’:tn OR ‘VASOMIL’:tn OR ‘VASOTON’:tn OR ‘VERACAPS’:tn OR ‘VERACOR’:tn OR  ‘VERAGAMMA’:tn OR ‘VERAHEXAL’:tn OR ‘VERALOC’:tn OR ‘VERAMIL’:tn OR ‘VERELAN’:tn OR  ‘VERELAN’:tn OR ‘VERPAMIL’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   187.  Bromazepam   ‘BROMAZEPAM’ OR ‘BROMAZEPAMUM’ OR ‘BROMAZÉPAM’ OR ‘AKAMON’:tn OR ‘AMANT’:tn OR  ‘BRIXOPAN’:tn OR ‘BROMALEX’:tn OR ‘BROMAM’:tn OR ‘BROMATOP’:tn OR ‘BROMAZANIL’:tn OR  ‘BROMAZEP -CT’:tn OR ‘BROMAZEPAM’:tn OR ‘COMPENDIUM’:tn OR ‘GITYL’:tn OR ‘LEKOTAM’:tn OR  ‘LEXATIN’:tn OR ‘LEXAURIN’:tn OR ‘LEXIL’:tn OR ‘LEXILIUM’:tn OR ‘LEXOMIL’:tn OR ‘LEXOPAM’:tn OR  ‘LEXOSTAD’:tn OR ‘LEXOTAN’:tn OR ‘LEXOTANIL’:tn OR ‘NORMOC’:tn OR ‘NOTORIUM’:tn OR  ‘PASCALIUM’:tn OR ‘QUIETILINE’:tn OR ‘SEDAM’:tn OR ‘ULTRAMIDOL’:tn OR ‘BROMAZEPAM’:tn OR  ‘BRAZEPAM’:tn OR ‘BROMAZEPAM’:tn OR ‘LECTOPAM’:tn OR ‘LEXATIN’:tn OR ‘LEXAURIN’:tn OR  ‘LEXIL’:tn OR ‘LEXILIUM’:tn OR ‘LEXOMIL’:tn OR ‘LEXOTAN’:tn OR ‘LEXOTANIL’:tn OR ‘NOVO - BROMAZEPAM’:tn OR ‘PASCALIUM’:tn OR ‘SENIRAN’:tn OR ‘ULTRAMIDOL’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 217/368   hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   188.  Bromhexine   ‘BROMHEXINE’ OR ‘BROMHEXINUM’ OR ‘BROMHEXINA’ OR ‘BACTOPUMON’:tn OR ‘BALSOPRIM’:tn OR  ‘BASIFLUX’:tn OR ‘BISOLEX’:tn OR ‘BISOLMED’:tn OR ‘BISOLVON’:tn OR ‘BROMEXINA’:tn OR  ‘BROMFLUEX’:tn OR ‘BROMHEX’:tn OR ‘BROMHEXIN’:tn OR ‘BROMHEXIN -EGIS EGIS’:tn OR  ‘BRONCHOTUSSINE’:tn OR ‘BRONHAL’:tn OR ‘BRONHOSOLV’:tn OR ‘BRONQUIDIAZINA’:tn OR  ‘BROOMHEXINE HCL DA’:tn OR ‘C1000 HOESTDRANK BROOMHEXINE HCL 4MG/5ML’:tn OR ‘C1000  HOESTDRANK EXTRA STERK BROOMHEXINE HCL 8MG/5ML’:tn OR ‘C1000 HOESTTABLETTEN  BROOMHEXINE HCL 8 MG’:tn OR ‘FLECOXIN’:tn OR ‘FLEGAMINA’:tn OR ‘FLEGATUSSIN’:tn OR  ‘FLUTOXIL’:tn OR ‘HOESTDRANK BROOMHEXINE HCI’:tn OR ‘HOESTTABLETTEN BROOMHEXINE HCL’:tn  OR ‘IDYL HOESTDRANK BROOMHEXINE HCL’:tn OR ‘KRUIDVAT HOESTDRANK BROOMHEXINE HCI’:tn  OR ‘LEIDAPHARM HOESTDRANK BROOMHEXINE HCI’:tn OR ‘LISOMUCIN’:tn OR ‘MEDIPEKT’:tn OR  ‘MOLLIPECT’:tn OR ‘MUCOVIN’:tn OR ‘NASOPAX’:tn OR ‘NIROLEX TOSSE E CATARRO’:tn OR ‘OTRIVIN  BROOMHEXINE’:tn OR ‘PAXIRASOL’:tn OR ‘TAUGLICOLO’:tn OR ‘TOSSEQUE’:tn OR ‘TOULARYNX  BROMHEXINE’:tn OR ‘TREKPLEISTER HOESTDRANK BROOMHEXINE HCI’:tn OR ‘VICKS HOESTDRANK  BROOMHEXINEHYDROCHLORIDE’:tn OR ‘VICKS HOESTDRANK VOOR KINDEREN  BROOMHEXINEHYDROCHLORIDE’:tn OR ‘BIOXINE’:tn OR ‘BISOLEX’:tn OR ‘BISOLVON’:tn OR  ‘BROMEX’:tn OR ‘BROMHEXIN’:tn OR ‘BROMHEXINE’:tn OR ‘BRONKESE’:tn OR ‘DISOL’:tn OR  ‘FULPEN’:tn OR ‘LEBELBON’:tn OR ‘MOLLIPECT’:tn OR ‘MOVEX’:tn OR ‘PAXIRASOL’:tn OR ‘SOLVEX  (BROMHEXINE HYDROCHLORIDE)’:tn OR ‘VASICAN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   189.  Carbocisteine   ‘CARBOCISTEINE’ OR ‘CARBOCYSTEINE’ OR ‘CARBOCISTEINĂ’ OR ‘CARBOCISTEÍNA’ OR  ‘CARBOCISTEINUM’ OR ‘CARBOCISTEINA’ OR ‘CARBOCISTÉINE’ OR ‘CARBOCISTEINA’ OR  ‘CARBOCISTEÍNA’ OR ‘ACTITHIOL’:tn OR ‘ADULTES’:tn OR ‘AUROMUCOL’:tn OR ‘BALSOCLASE     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 218/368   MUCOLYTICUM 5 % SANS SUCRE’:tn OR ‘BENYLIN MUCUS RELIEF’:tn OR ‘BRONCATHIOL ENFANTS’:tn  OR ‘BRONCATHIOL EXPECTORANT ADULTES’:tn OR ‘BRONCHIAL -OM’:tn OR ‘BRONCHO -PECTORALIS  JUNIOR’:tn OR ‘BRONCHOKOD’:tn OR ‘BRONCOCLAR ADULTE’:tn OR ‘BRONCOCLAR ENFANTS’:tn OR  ‘BRONCOLIB’:tn OR ‘BRONKIREX’:tn OR ‘BRONQUIAL -OM’:tn OR ‘CARBOCISTEIN UNITHER’:tn OR  ‘CARBOCISTEINA’:tn OR ‘CARBOCISTEINE’:tn OR ‘CHILVAX’:tn OR ‘CINFAMUCOL’:tn OR ‘CISBEDAL’:tn  OR ‘CLARIX EXPECTORANT ADULTES’:tn OR ‘CLARIX EXPECTORANT ENFANTS’:tn OR ‘CODOTUSSYL  EXPECTORANT ADULTES’:tn OR ‘CONSEIL’:tn OR ‘CONSEIL 5 % ADULTES SANS SUCRE’:tn OR ‘DRILL  EXPECTORANT 750 MG’:tn OR ‘DRILL EXPECTORANT ADULTES 5 %’:tn OR ‘DRILL EXPECTORANT SANS  SUCRE ADULTES 5 %’:tn OR ‘EDIFLU’:tn OR ‘ERGIX  ADULTES EXPECTORANT SANS SUCRE  ÉDULCORÉE À LA SACCHARINE SODIQUE’:tn OR ‘EXOTOUX’:tn OR ‘EXPUTEX’:tn OR ‘FINATUX’:tn OR  ‘FLUDITEC’:tn OR ‘FLUDITEC ADULTES EXPECTORANT’:tn OR ‘FLUDITEC ADULTES SANS SUCRE’:tn OR  ‘FLUDITEC ENFANTS’:tn OR ‘FLUICARE’:tn OR ‘FLUIDOL’:tn OR ‘FLUIDÍN MUCOLÍTICO’:tn OR  ‘FLUIFORT’:tn OR ‘FRIMUCE’:tn OR ‘GLOSID’:tn OR ‘GRIFLUX’:tn OR ‘HUMEX ADULTES  EXPECTORANT’:tn OR ‘HUMEX ENFANTS  EXPECTORANT’:tn OR ‘HUMEX EXPECTORANT’:tn OR  ‘HUMEXCOUGH ADULTS’:tn OR ‘HUMEXCOUGH CHILDREN’:tn OR ‘HUMOTUSIN EXPECTORANT PENTRU  ADULŢI’:tn OR ‘ILMOCIN’:tn OR ‘INISTON MUCOLÍTICO’:tn OR ‘KOFITUSS MUCOLITICO’:tn OR  ‘LIBEXIN’:tn OR ‘MEDIBRONC ADULTES’:tn OR ‘MEDIBRONC ENFANT’:tn OR ‘MUCO RHINATHIOL’:tn  OR ‘MUCO RHINATHIOL 2% SIROOP VOOR KINDEREN ZONDER SUIKER’:tn OR ‘MUCODYNE’:tn OR  ‘MUCOLASE’:tn OR ‘MUCOPRONT’:tn OR ‘MUCORAL’:tn OR ‘MUCOSTAR’:tn OR ‘MUCOTHIOL’:tn OR  ‘MUCOVITAL’:tn OR ‘MUKOLINA’:tn OR ‘NIFLUX’:tn OR ‘PECTODRILL’:tn OR ‘PECTOX’:tn OR  ‘PULMIBEN’:tn OR ‘PULMOCLASE’:tn OR ‘RECOFLUID’:tn OR ‘REODYN’:tn OR ‘SINECOD TOSSE  FLUIDIFICANTE’:tn OR ‘SIROXYL’:tn OR ‘SOLUCIS’:tn OR ‘TRANSBRONCHIN’:tn OR ‘TRECID’:tn OR  ‘TRIOFAN’:tn OR ‘VISCOLEX’:tn OR ‘VISCOTEÍNA’:tn OR ‘ACTIFED EXPECTORANT’:tn OR  ‘BRONCHOBOS’:tn OR ‘BRONCHOKOD’:tn OR ‘BRONCHOTHIOL’:tn OR ‘C -CYSTEN’:tn OR  ‘CARBOCISTEINE’:tn OR ‘CARBUTAN’:tn OR ‘CARZIRINE’:tn OR ‘CISDYNE’:tn OR ‘CYSCARBON’:tn OR  ‘DUXIL’:tn OR ‘FLEMEX’:tn OR ‘FLUDITEC’:tn OR ‘KUINSRON’:tn OR ‘LISOMUCIL’:tn OR  ‘MEPHATHIOL’:tn OR ‘METHISTA’:tn OR ‘MUCODIN’:tn OR ‘MUCODYNE’:tn OR ‘MUCOLASE’:tn OR  ‘MUCOLEX’:tn OR ‘MUCOLIT’:tn OR ‘MUCOPRONT’:tn OR ‘MUCOSOL’:tn OR ‘MUCOSPECT’:tn OR  ‘MUCOTREIS’:tn OR ‘RHINATHIOL’:tn OR ‘SAWATENE’:tn OR ‘TOCLASE’:tn OR ‘TRIOFAN’:tn OR  ‘TRIOFAN RHUME’:tn OR ‘VISCOLEX’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 219/368   190.  Isotretinoin   ‘ISOTRETINOIN’ OR ‘13 -CIS-RETINOIC ACID’ OR ‘IZOTRETINOÍNU’ OR ‘ISOTRETINOIN’ OR  ‘ISOTRETINOÍNA’ OR ‘IZOTRETYNOINA’ OR ‘ISOTRETINOINUM’ OR ‘ISOTRETINOINA’ OR  ‘IZOTRETINOIN’ OR ‘ISOTRÉTINOÏNE’ OR ‘ISOTRETINOINE’ OR ‘ÁCIDO 13 -CIS-RETINOICO’ OR  ‘ISOTRETINOÍNA’ OR ‘ISOTRETINOINA’ OR ‘ISOTRETINOIN’ OR ‘ISOTRETINOINUM’ OR ‘A -CNOTREN’:tn  OR ‘ACCURAN’:tn OR ‘ACCUTIN’:tn OR ‘ACNEMIN’:tn OR ‘ACNENOR’:tn OR ‘ACNETRAIT’:tn OR  ‘ACNOGEN’:tn OR ‘ACTAVEN’:tn OR ‘AISOSKIN’:tn OR ‘AKNENORMIN’:tn OR ‘AXOTRET’:tn OR  ‘CISCUTAN’:tn OR ‘CONTRACNE’:tn OR ‘CURACNE’:tn OR ‘DECUTAN’:tn OR ‘DERCUTANE’:tn OR  ‘FLEXRESAN’:tn OR ‘INERTA’:tn OR ‘ISDIBEN’:tn OR ‘ISOACNE’:tn OR ‘ISOCURAL’:tn OR ‘ISODERM’:tn  OR ‘ISOGALEN’:tn OR ‘ISOMACNE’:tn OR ‘ISOPROTIL’:tn OR ‘ISORIAC’:tn OR ‘ISOSUPRA LIDOSE’:tn  OR ‘ISOTRET’:tn OR ‘ISOTRETINOIN -’:tn OR ‘ISOTROIN’:tn OR ‘IZOTEK’:tn OR ‘IZOTZIAJA’:tn OR  ‘MAYESTA’:tn OR ‘OROTREX’:tn OR ‘PHARMISO’:tn OR ‘PROCUTA’:tn OR ‘REDUCAR’:tn OR  ‘RIZUDERM’:tn OR ‘ROACCUTAN’:tn OR ‘ROACCUTANE’:tn OR ‘ROTREN’:tn OR ‘SOTRET’:tn OR  ‘SΤΙEFOΤREX’:tn OR ‘TRETIN’:tn OR ‘TRETINEX’:tn OR ‘TRETIOSAN’:tn OR ‘ABSORICA’:tn OR  ‘ACCUTANE’:tn OR ‘AMNESTEEM’:tn OR ‘CECNOIN’:tn OR ‘CLARAVIS’:tn OR ‘CLARUS’:tn OR  ‘CURACNE’:tn OR ‘CURACNÉ’:tn OR ‘CURAKNE’:tn OR ‘DECUTAN’:tn OR ‘ISDIBEN’:tn OR ‘ISOSUPRA  LIDOSE’:tn OR ‘ISOTRETINOIN’:tn OR ‘ISOTRETINOINA’:tn OR ‘ISOTREX’:tn OR ‘LURANTAL’:tn OR  ‘MYORISAN’:tn OR ‘ORATANE’:tn OR ‘ROACCUTAN’:tn OR ‘ROACCUTANE’:tn OR ‘ROACUTAN’:tn OR  ‘SOTRET’:tn OR ‘TRETINAC’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   191.  Ticlopidine   ‘TICLOPIDINE’ O R ‘TICLOPIDINUM’ OR ‘TICLOPIDINA’ OR ‘TICLOPIDIN’ OR ‘ACLOTIN’:tn OR  ‘ANTIGREG’:tn OR ‘APLAKET’:tn OR ‘CLODIN 250 MG’:tn OR ‘CLOX’:tn OR ‘FLUILAST’:tn OR ‘FLUPID’:tn  OR ‘FLUXIDIN’:tn OR ‘ICLOPID’:tn OR ‘IPATON’:tn OR ‘KLODIN’:tn OR ‘NEO -FULVIGAL’:tn OR  ‘OPTERON’:tn OR ‘PLAQUETAL’:tn OR ‘RUXICOLAN CAP’:tn OR ‘TAGREN’:tn OR ‘THROMBODINE’:tn OR  ‘TICLID’:tn OR ‘TICLO’:tn OR ‘TICLODIN’:tn OR ‘TICLODIX’:tn OR ‘TICLODONE’:tn OR ‘TICLOPIDIN’:tn  OR ‘TICLOPIDINA’:tn OR ‘TIKLID’:tn OR ‘TIKLYD’:tn OR ‘TIROPA’:tn OR ‘TYKLOPIDYNA EGIS EGIS’:tn  OR ‘TIC’:tn OR ‘TICLOPIDINE’:tn OR ‘BEACHILON’:tn OR ‘HISHIMIDON’:tn OR ‘IPATON’:tn OR  ‘KLODIN’:tn OR ‘NICHISTATE’:tn OR ‘PANALDINE’:tn OR ‘PANAPIDIN’:tn OR ‘PARACLODIN’:tn OR  ‘PATYUNA’:tn OR ‘PHARLODINE’:tn OR ‘PIETENALE’:tn OR ‘PLAKETAR’:tn OR ‘PLAQUETAL’:tn OR  ‘SOLOZORIN’:tn OR ‘SOPER’:tn OR ‘TICLID’:tn OR ‘TICLODIX’:tn OR ‘TICLODONE’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 220/368   ‘TICLOPIDIN’:tn OR ‘TICLOPIDINA’:tn OR ‘TICPILONE’:tn OR ‘TIKLID’:tn OR ‘TIKLYD’:tn OR ‘TIROPA’:tn  AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR  misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp  OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   192.  Tobramycin   ‘TOBRAMYCIN’ OR ‘TOBRAMICIN’ OR ‘TOBRAMICINĂ’ OR ‘TOBRAMICINA’ OR ‘TOBRAMYCYNA’ OR  ‘TOBRAMYCINE’ OR ‘TOBRAMYCINUM’ OR ‘TOBRAMICINO’ OR ‘TOBRAMYCINUM’ OR ‘T OBRAMICINA’ OR  ‘TÓBRAMÝSÍN’ OR ‘TOBRAMYCINE’ OR ‘TOBRAMYSIINI’ OR ‘TOBR AMÜTSIINI’ OR ‘TOBRAMICINA’ OR  ‘TOBRAMYCINUM’ OR ‘BRAMICIL’:tn OR ‘BRAMITOB’:tn OR ‘BRULAMYCIN’:tn OR ‘EYETOBRIN’:tn OR  ‘GERNEBCIN’:tn OR ‘IKOBEL’:tn OR ‘MITOBRIN’:tn OR ‘NEBCIN’:tn OR ‘NEBCINA’:tn OR ‘NEBCINE’:tn  OR ‘NEBRIS’:tn OR ‘OBRACIN’:tn OR ‘OCUPIX’:tn OR ‘ROCOTOB’:tn OR ‘THILOMICINE’:tn OR  ‘TIMORREB’:tn OR ‘TOBI’:tn OR ‘TOBRABACT’:tn OR ‘TOBRAL’:tn OR ‘TOBRAMAXIN’:tn OR  ‘TOBRAMYCIN’:tn OR ‘TOBRASTILL’:tn OR ‘TOBRAVISC’:tn OR ‘TOBREX’:tn OR ‘TOBREXAN’:tn OR  ‘TOBRIN’:tn OR ‘TOBRINEB’:tn OR ‘TOBROM’:tn OR ‘TOBROSOPT’:tn OR ‘TOMICINOFTA’:tn OR  ‘URSITAN’:tn OR ‘VANTOBRA 170 MG’:tn OR ‘BETHKIS’:tn OR ‘BRAMITOB’:tn OR ‘NEBCIN’:tn OR  ‘NEBCINE’:tn OR ‘OBRACIN’:tn OR ‘TOBI’:tn OR ‘TOBRA’:tn OR ‘TOBRACIN’:tn OR ‘TOBRAMAXIN’:tn  OR ‘TOBRAMYCINE’:tn OR ‘TOBREX’:tn OR ‘TOFLAMIXINA’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 221/368   193.  Metamizole   ‘METAMIZOLE’ OR ‘METAMIZOL’ OR ‘ALGI -MABO’:tn OR ‘ALGIFEN’:tn OR ‘ALGOCALMIN’:tn OR  ‘ALGOPYRIN’:tn OR ‘ALGOZONE’:tn OR ‘ALINDOR’:tn OR ‘ALKAGIN’:tn OR ‘ALVOTOR’:tn OR  ‘AMIZOLMET’:tn OR ‘ANALGIN’:tn OR ‘BENALGIN’:tn OR ‘BERLOSIN’:tn OR ‘BUSCAPINA’:tn OR  ‘CENTRALGIN’:tn OR ‘DIPIRONE’:tn OR ‘DOLEMICIN’:tn OR ‘DOLOCALMA’:tn OR ‘FLAMBORIN’:tn OR  ‘FRESHALGIN’:tn OR ‘HEXALGIN’:tn OR ‘LITALGIN’:tn OR ‘METALGIAL’:tn OR ‘METAMIZOL’:tn OR  ‘METAMIZOLO’:tn OR ‘METAPYRIN’:tn OR ‘MILALGIN’:tn OR ‘NOLOTIL’:tn OR  ‘NORAMINOPHENAZONI’:tn OR ‘NOVALGIN’:tn OR ‘NOVALGINA’:tn OR ‘NOVALGINE’:tn OR  ‘NOVAMINSULFON’:tn OR ‘NOVAZOL’:tn OR ‘NOVOCALMIN’:tn OR ‘OPTALGIN’:tn OR ‘PANALGORIN  INJ’:tn OR ‘PANALGORIN TABL’:tn OR ‘PIAFEN’:tn OR ‘PIRALGIN’:tn OR ‘PROALGIN’:tn OR  ‘PYRALGIN’:tn OR ‘PYRALGINA’:tn OR ‘QUARELIN’:tn OR ‘RE -ALGIN’:tn OR ‘SCOPOLAN  COMPOSITUM’:tn OR ‘SPASMALGON’:tn OR ‘SPASMOBLOC’:tn OR ‘SUPPOSITORIUM ANALGETICUM’:tn  OR ‘SUPPOSITORIUM ANALGETICUM F’:tn OR ‘SUPPOSITORIUM NORAMINOPHENAZONI’:tn OR  ‘SUPPOSITORIUM NORAMINOPHENAZONI 200 MG’:tn OR ‘SUPPOSITORIUM SPASMOLYTICUM’:tn OR  ‘TABLETTA ANALGETICA’:tn OR ‘TABLETTA ANALGETICA F’:tn OR ‘TEMPALGIN’:tn OR ‘TEMPIMET’:tn  OR ‘TONIALGIN’:tn OR ‘ADEPIRON’:tn OR ‘ALGIFEN’:tn OR ‘ANADOR (DIPYRONE)’:tn OR ‘ANADOR  (METAMIZOLE)’:tn OR ‘ANALGIN’:tn OR ‘ANDIPAL’:tn OR ‘BARALGIN’:tn OR ‘BENALGIN’:tn OR  ‘BENEGRIP’:tn OR ‘DIPIRONE’:tn OR ‘LISALGIL’:tn OR ‘MAGNIL’:tn OR ‘MAGNOPYROL’:tn OR  ‘METAMIZOL’:tn OR ‘METILON’:tn OR ‘MINALGIN’:tn OR ‘NEO -MELUBRINA’:tn OR ‘NOLOTIL’:tn OR  ‘NOVALCINA’:tn OR ‘NOVALGETOL’:tn OR ‘NOVALGIN’:tn OR ‘NOVALGINA’:tn OR ‘NOVALGINE’:tn OR  ‘NOVAMINSULFON’:tn OR ‘OPTALGIN’:tn OR ‘PIAFEN’:tn OR ‘PRODOLINA’:tn OR ‘QUARELIN’:tn OR  ‘RENALGAN’:tn OR ‘SPASGAN’:tn OR ‘SPASMALGON’:tn OR ‘SULPYRIN’:tn OR ‘SULPYRINE’:tn OR  ‘UNAGEN’:tn OR ‘V -DALGIN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   194.  Rizatriptan   ‘RIZATRIPTAN’ OR ‘RIZATRIPTANO’ OR ‘RYZATRYPTANU’ OR ‘RIZATRIPTANAS’ OR ‘RIZATRIPTANUM’  OR ‘RIZATRIPTÁN’ OR ‘RITSATRIPTAANI’ OR ‘RISATRIPTAAN’ OR ‘RIZATRIPTÁN’ OR ‘RIZATRIPTANUM’  OR ‘ADDARIZ’:tn OR ‘MAVIXAN’:tn OR ‘MAXALT’:tn OR ‘MAXALTLYO’:tn OR ‘RIPTASPEC’:tn OR  ‘RIZAFAR’:tn OR ‘RIZALIV’:tn OR ‘RIZALIV RPD’:tn OR ‘RIZASMELT’:tn OR ‘RIZASPEC’:tn OR  ‘RIZASTAD’:tn OR ‘RIZATRIPATAN GLENMARK’:tn OR ‘RIZATRIPTAN -’:tn OR ‘RIZATRPTAN  TECNIGEN’:tn OR ‘TANRISPES’:tn OR ‘TRIZADOL’:tn OR ‘ZAPTAFAR’:tn OR ‘ZATRAPTIN’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 222/368   ‘ZATRISPEC’:tn OR ‘MAXALT’:tn OR ‘MAXALT -MLT’:tn OR ‘RIZALT’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp  OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   195.  Valproic Acid   ‘VALPROIC ACID’ OR ‘2 -PROPYLPENTANOIC ACID’ OR ‘ACIDE VALPROIQUE’ OR ‘ACIDUM VALPROICUM’  OR ‘ACIDO VALPROICO’ OR ‘ACIDE VALPROIQUE’ OR ‘ACIDE VALPROÏQUE’ OR ‘ÁCIDO VALPROICO’ OR  ‘ABSENOR’ OR ‘CO -VALPROAT(E) EG’ OR ‘CONVIVAL CHRONO’:tn OR ‘CONVULEX’:tn OR ‘CONVULEX  CHRONO’:tn OR ‘CONVULEX FÜR KINDER’:tn OR ‘DELEPSINE’:tn OR ‘DEPAKIN’:tn OR ‘DEPAKINE’:tn  OR ‘DEPAMAG’:tn OR ‘DEPRAKINE’:tn OR ‘DIPLEXIL’:tn OR ‘DIPROMAL’:tn OR ‘EPILIM’:tn OR  ‘EPISENTA’:tn OR ‘ERGENYL’:tn OR ‘ESPA -VALEPT’:tn OR ‘HEXAQUIN’:tn OR ‘LEPTILAN’:tn OR  ‘MICROPAKINE’:tn OR ‘NATRIUMVALPROAAT’:tn OR ‘NATRIUMVALPROAT’:tn OR ‘ORFIRIL’:tn OR  ‘PETILIN’:tn OR ‘PROPYMAL ENTERIC’:tn OR ‘SODIO VALPROATO’:tn OR ‘SODIUM VALPROATE’:tn OR  ‘VALBERG PR’:tn OR ‘VALEPIL’:tn OR ‘VALHEL PR’:tn OR ‘VALPRO’:tn OR ‘VALPROAT’:tn OR  ‘VALPROATE DE SODIUM’:tn OR ‘VALPROATE EG’:tn OR ‘VALPRODURA’:tn OR ‘VALPROLEK’:tn OR  ‘VALPROTEK CR’:tn OR ‘VALPROÁT’:tn OR ‘APILEPSIN’:tn OR ‘DIVALPROEX’:tn OR ‘ATEMPERATOR’:tn  OR ‘BALDEKEN -R’:tn OR ‘CEREB’:tn OR ‘CONVULEX’:tn OR ‘CONVULSOFIN’:tn OR ‘DELEPSINE’:tn OR  ‘DEPACON’:tn OR ‘DEPAKENE’:tn OR ‘DEPAKIN’:tn OR ‘DEPAKINE’:tn OR ‘DEPALEPT’:tn OR  ‘DEPRAKINE’:tn OR ‘DIVALPROEX’:tn OR ‘ENCORATE’:tn OR ‘EPILIM’:tn OR ‘EPIRENAT’:tn OR  ‘EPIVAL’:tn OR ‘ERGENYL’:tn OR ‘HYSERENIN’:tn OR ‘LEPTILAN’:tn OR ‘ -VALPROIC’:tn OR ‘NATRII  VALPROAS’:tn OR ‘NATRIUMVALPROAAT’:tn OR ‘NOVO -DIVALPROEX’:tn OR ‘ORFIRIL’:tn OR ‘RATIO - VALPROIC’:tn OR ‘SANOTEN’:tn OR ‘SELENICA -R’:tn OR ‘STAVZOR’:tn OR ‘VALERIN’:tn OR  ‘VALPAKINE’:tn OR ‘VALPORAL’:tn OR ‘VALPRO’:tn OR ‘VALPROAT’:tn OR ‘VALPROATE’:tn OR  ‘VALPROIC ACID RATIO’:tn OR ‘VALPROIC APO’:tn OR ‘VALPROIC’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp  OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 223/368   hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   196.  Capecitabine   ‘CAPECITABINE’ OR ‘KAPECITABIN’ OR ‘KAPECITABIN’ OR ‘KAPECITABÍN’ OR ‘CAPECITABINĂ’ OR  ‘CAPE CITABINA’ OR ‘KAPECYTABINA’ OR ‘KAPECITABĪNA’ OR ‘KAPECITABĪNS’ OR ‘KAPECITABINAS’ OR  ‘CAPECITABINUM’ OR ‘KAPECITABIN’ OR ‘KAPECITABIN’ OR ‘KAPECITABIN’ OR ‘KAPECITABIN’ OR  ‘CAIPEICITIBÉIN’ OR ‘CAPÉCITABINE’ OR ‘KAPESITABIINI’ OR ‘KAPETSITABIIN’ OR ‘CAPECITABINA’ OR  ‘CAPECITABIN’ OR ‘CAPECITABIN’ OR ‘CAPECITABINUM’ OR ‘KAPECITABIN’ OR ‘ARXEDA’ OR ‘CANSATA’  OR ‘CAPECEL’ OR ‘CAPECITABIN -BIOMO’ OR ‘CAPECITABINA’ OR ‘CAPECITABINE’ OR ‘CAPECITABINĂ’  OR ‘CAPECITALOX’ OR ‘CAPECITASTAD’ OR ‘CAPEDA’:tn OR ‘COLOXET’:tn OR ‘ECANSYA’:tn OR  ‘KAPETRAL’:tn OR ‘LORPEDA, 150 MG’:tn OR ‘PREVEXEL’:tn OR ‘SYMLODA’:tn OR ‘VOPECIDEX’:tn OR  ‘XALVOBIN’:tn OR ‘XELCIP’:tn OR ‘XELODA’:tn OR ‘CAPECITABINE’:tn OR ‘XELODA’:tn AND ('adverse  drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR  'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   197.  Desogestrel   ‘DESOGESTREL’ OR ‘DEZOGESTREL’ OR ‘DESOGESTRELUM’ OR ‘DEZOGESTRELIS’ OR  ‘DESO GESTRELUM’ OR ‘DESÓGESTREL’ OR ‘DÉSOGESTREL’ OR ‘DESOGESTREELI ’ OR ‘DESOGESTREEL’  OR ‘DESOGESTRELUM’ O R ‘AIZEA’:tn OR ‘AZALIA’:tn OR ‘BABETTE’:tn OR ‘CELEA’:tn OR ‘CERAZET’:tn  OR ‘CERAZETTE’:tn OR ‘CERELLE’:tn OR ‘CHALANT’:tn OR ‘CLAREAL’:tn OR ‘CYCLE ‘:tn OR  ‘CYPRELLA’:tn OR ‘DAISENETTE’:tn OR ‘DAMARA’:tn OR ‘DEBUNICA’:tn OR ‘DESALY’:tn OR ‘DESETTE  MONO’:tn OR ‘DESIRETT’:tn OR ‘DESOFEMONO’:tn OR ‘DESOMONO’:tn OR ‘DESOPOP’:tn OR  ‘DESOREX’:tn OR ‘DESOSTACTA’:tn OR ‘DIAMILLA’:tn OR ‘EVAKADIN’:tn OR ‘FAMYLETTE’:tn OR  ‘FANAKA’:tn OR ‘FEANOLLA’:tn OR ‘FEMELLE’:tn OR ‘GESTRINA’:tn OR ‘HORMOSAN -DESOGESTREL’:tn  OR ‘ISANIVA’:tn OR ‘JUBRELE’:tn OR ‘LACTINETTE’:tn OR ‘LAMYA’:tn OR ‘LIMETIC’:tn OR ‘LUEVA’:tn  OR ‘LUPIN -DESOGESTREL’:tn OR ‘MELINAGYN’:tn OR ‘MIDESIA’:tn OR ‘MIRZAM’:tn OR ‘MONIQ’:tn OR  ‘MOONIA’:tn OR ‘MYRLINE’:tn OR ‘MYRTILLA’:tn OR ‘NACREZ’:tn OR ‘NEOVEL’:tn OR ‘ONEFRA  SANOL’:tn OR ‘OPTIMIZETTE’:tn OR ‘OVULAN’:tn OR ‘SAPHIRENA’:tn OR ‘SECULACT’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 224/368   ‘SIMONETTE’:tn OR ‘SOFTINETTE’:tn OR ‘SOLGEST’:tn OR ‘SYMONETTE’:tn OR ‘TANGOLITA’:tn OR  ‘NETTE’:tn OR ‘TORRI’:tn OR ‘TRUNELE’:tn OR ‘VINELLE’:tn OR ‘XYNIA’:tn OR ‘YVETTE -’:tn OR  ‘ZARELLE’:tn OR ‘ZELLETA’:tn OR ‘ZYNTHIA’:tn OR ‘CERAZET’:tn OR ‘CERAZETTE’:tn OR ‘NACTALI’:tn  AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR  misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp  OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   198.  Metoclopramide   ‘METOCLOPRAMIDE’ OR ‘METOCHLOPRAMIDE’ OR ‘METHOCHLOPRAMIDE’ OR ‘METOCLOPRAMIDUM’ OR  ‘MÉTOCLOPRAMIDE’ OR ‘METOCLOPRAMIDA’ OR ‘AEROFLAT’:tn OR ‘AFIPRAN’:tn OR ‘ANAUSIN’:tn OR  ‘ANTI -ANOREX TRIPLE’:tn OR ‘ANTIEMETIN’:tn OR ‘CERUCAL’:tn OR ‘CHLORHYDRATE DE  METOCLOPRAMIDE RENAUDIN’:tn OR ‘CLOPAN’:tn OR ‘CLOPERAN’:tn OR ‘DEGAN’:tn OR ‘DIBERTIL’:tn  OR ‘ELITAN’:tn OR ‘EMPERAL’:tn OR ‘GASTRO -TIMELETS’:tn OR ‘GEFFER’:tn OR ‘ISAPRANDIL’:tn OR  ‘MAALOX NAUSEA’:tn OR ‘MAXOLON’:tn OR ‘MCP’:tn OR ‘METOCLOPRAMIDHYDROCHLORID 1H2O  AL’:tn OR ‘MCP METOCLOPRAMIDHYDROCHLORID AL’:tn OR ‘METGEN’:tn OR ‘METOCLO’:tn OR  ‘METOCLOPRAMIDE’:tn OR ‘METOKLOPRAMID ALTERNOVA’:tn OR ‘METOPRAN’:tn OR ‘MYGDALON’:tn  OR ‘PASPERTIN’:tn OR ‘PLASIL’:tn OR ‘PRIMPERAN’:tn OR ‘PROKINYL L.P.’:tn OR ‘REGLAN’:tn OR  ‘SUXIDINA’:tn OR ‘ANAUSIN’:tn OR ‘ANOLEXINON’:tn OR ‘ANPRO -METOCLOPRAMIDE’:tn OR  ‘CARNOTPRIM’:tn OR ‘CERUCAL’:tn OR ‘CLOPAMON’:tn OR ‘CONTROMET’:tn OR ‘DAMABEN’:tn OR  ‘DIGENOR’:tn OR ‘DURACLAMID’:tn OR ‘ELIETEN’:tn OR ‘EMPERAL’:tn OR ‘FOLICRON’:tn OR ‘GASTRO - TIMELETS’:tn OR ‘GASTROSIL’:tn OR ‘KLOMETOL’:tn OR ‘MACPERAN’:tn OR ‘MAXERAN’:tn OR  ‘MAXOLON’:tn OR ‘MCP’:tn OR ‘MELOMIDE’:tn OR ‘METAMIDE’:tn OR ‘METOCLOP’:tn OR  ‘METOCLOPRAMID’:tn OR ‘METOCLOPRAMIDE HCL’:tn OR ‘METOCLOPRAMIDUM’:tn OR ‘METOZOLV’:tn  OR ‘METPAMID’:tn OR ‘METPAMİD’:tn OR ‘MIGRAFIN’:tn OR ‘NEOPRAMIEL’:tn OR ‘OPRAM’:tn OR  ‘PASPERTIN’:tn OR ‘PERAPRIN’:tn OR ‘PERINORM’:tn OR ‘PLASIL’:tn OR ‘PMS -METOCLOPRAMIDE’:tn  OR ‘PRAMIDIN’:tn OR ‘PRAMIEL’:tn OR ‘PRAMIN’:tn OR ‘PRIMPERAN’:tn OR ‘REGLAN’:tn OR  ‘TERPERAN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 225/368   pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   199.  Repaglinide   ‘REPAGLINIDE’ OR ‘REPAGLINIDĂ’ OR ‘REPAGLINID’ OR ‘REP AGLINĪDS’ OR ‘REPAGLINIDUM’ OR  ‘RÉPAGLINIDE’:tn OR ‘REPAGLINIDUM’:tn OR ‘REPAGLINIDA’:tn OR ‘REPAGLINID’:tn OR  ‘REPAGLINID’:tn OR ‘ADEREGL’:tn OR ‘DIBETIX’:tn OR ‘ENYGLID’:tn OR ‘GLOREPINAD’:tn OR  ‘ILGAPER’:tn OR ‘NOVONORM’:tn OR ‘PRANDIN’:tn OR ‘RAGESPES’:tn OR ‘REGLIN’:tn OR  ‘REGLINEP’:tn OR ‘REGLINID’:tn OR ‘RENEOS’:tn OR ‘REODON’:tn OR ‘REPAGLINID’:tn OR  ‘REPAGLINIDE’:tn OR ‘REPALID’:tn OR ‘REPISMIN’:tn OR ‘RPAGLINIDE’:tn OR ‘SPECIREP’:tn OR  ‘SPERAGLIN’:tn OR ‘THEROFLAN’:tn OR ‘GLUCONORM’:tn OR ‘NOVONORM’:tn OR ‘POSPRAND’:tn OR  ‘PRANDIN’:tn OR ‘REPAGLINIDE’:tn OR ‘SUREPOST’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   200.  Tolterodine   ‘TOLTERODINE’ OR ‘TOLTERODINUM’ OR ‘TOLTÉRODINE’ OR ‘TOLTERODINA’ OR ‘TOLTERODINE’ OR  ‘BLERONE’:tn OR ‘DEFUR’:tn OR ‘DENGAFF’:tn OR ‘DETERODINE’:tn OR ‘DETRULET’:tn OR  ‘DETRULON’:tn OR ‘DETRUSITOL’:tn OR ‘EFFLOSOMYL’:tn OR ‘INCONEX’:tn OR ‘MARIOSEA’:tn OR  ‘NEDITOL’:tn OR ‘PREBLACON’:tn OR ‘PROTOL’:tn OR ‘RELTID’:tn OR ‘SANTIZOR’:tn OR ‘SPERODIM’:tn  OR ‘TITLODINE’:tn OR ‘TOITEPOAHHA A KOPA’:tn OR ‘TOLDONE’:tn OR ‘TOLESPES’:tn OR  ‘TOLNIDDA’:tn OR ‘TOLOTEX’:tn OR ‘TOLTERANA’:tn OR ‘TOLTERDEX’:tn OR ‘TOLTERODIN’:tn OR  ‘TOLTERODIN’:tn OR ‘TOLTERODIN’:tn OR ‘TOLTERODINE TARTRATE’:tn OR  ‘TOLTERODINETARTRAAT’:tn OR ‘TOLTERODINTARTRAT’:tn OR ‘TOLTERODINTARTRAT’:tn OR  ‘TOLTERRODINA’:tn OR ‘TOLTERTAN’:tn OR ‘TOLTERYA’:tn OR ‘TOLUSITOL’:tn OR ‘TOLZURIN’:tn OR  ‘TRILLBLAD’:tn OR ‘TRUSITEV’:tn OR ‘TULERIN’:tn OR ‘URIMPER’:tn OR ‘UROFLOW’:tn OR  ‘UROLINA’:tn OR ‘UROLINE’:tn OR ‘UROTROL’:tn OR ‘DETROL’:tn OR ‘DETRUSITOL’:tn OR  ‘UROTROL’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 226/368   effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   201.  Ribavirin   ('TRIBAVIRIN' /exp OR 'TRIBAVIRIN' OR 'RYBAWIRYNA' OR 'RIBAVIRĪNS' OR 'RIBAVIRINAS' OR  'RIBAVIRINUM' OR 'RIBAVIRINA' OR 'RÍBAVÍRINI' OR 'RIBAVIRIN' /exp OR 'RIBAVIRIN' OR  'RIBAVIRINE' /exp OR 'RIBAVIRINE' OR 'RIBAVIRIINI' :tn OR 'RIBAVIRIIN' :tn OR 'RIBAVIRINA' :tn OR  'MODERYBA' :tn OR 'RIBATREL' :tn OR 'RIBAVIRIN' :tn OR 'RIBAVIRINE' :tn OR 'RIBAVOX' :tn OR  'RIXOR' :tn OR 'COPEGUS' :tn OR 'COTRONAK' :tn OR 'MODERIBA' :tn OR 'PEGASYS' :tn OR  'PEGATRON' :tn OR 'REBETOL' :tn OR 'REBETRON' :tn OR 'RIBAPAK' :tn OR 'RIBAPEG' :tn OR  'RIBASPHERE' :tn OR 'VICTRELIS' :tn OR 'VIRAZOLE' :tn OR 'VIRON RIBAVIRIN':tn) AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   202.  Mesalazine   ‘MESALAZINE’ OR ‘MESALAMINE’ OR ‘MESSALAZINE’ OR ‘5 -ASA’ OR ‘MESALAZINA’ OR ‘MESSALAZINA’  OR ‘MESALAZYNA’ OR ‘MESALAZINE’ OR ‘MESALAZINUM’ OR ‘MESALAZINA’ OR ‘MESALAZINA’ OR  ‘MESALAZIN’ OR ‘ASACOL’:tn OR ‘ASACOLON’:tn OR ‘ASALEX’:tn OR ‘ASAVIXIN’:tn OR ‘CLAVERSAL’:tn  OR ‘COLITOFALK’:tn OR ‘CROHNAX’:tn OR ‘CRONEZIL’:tn OR ‘ENTERAPROCT’:tn OR ‘ENTERASIN’:tn  OR ‘FALK -ASA’:tn OR ‘FIVASA’:tn OR ‘IPOCOL’:tn OR ‘LEXTRASA’:tn OR ‘LIXACOL’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 227/368   ‘MESAFLOR’:tn OR ‘MESAGRAN’:tn OR ‘MESALMIN’:tn OR ‘MESASAL’:tn OR ‘MESAVANCOL’:tn OR  ‘MESAZIN’:tn OR ‘MEZAVANT’:tn OR ‘NORASA’:tn OR ‘OCTASA’:tn OR ‘PENTACOL’:tn OR ‘PENTASA’:tn  OR ‘PROCTASACOL’:tn OR ‘QUINTASA’:tn OR ‘ROWASA’:tn OR ‘SALO’:tn OR ‘SALOFALK’:tn OR  ‘SALOGRAN -FALK’:tn OR ‘SALOZINAL’:tn OR ‘SAMEZIL’:tn OR ‘XALAZIN’:tn OR ‘ASAMAX’:tn OR ‘5 - ASA’:tn OR ‘APRISO’:tn OR ‘ASACOL’:tn OR ‘ASACOLON’:tn OR ‘ASALEX’:tn OR ‘ASALIT’:tn OR  ‘CANASA’:tn OR ‘CLAVERSAL’:tn OR ‘DELZICOL’:tn OR ‘FIVASA’:tn OR ‘LIALDA’:tn OR ‘MESACOL’:tn  OR ‘MESALAZINA’:tn OR ‘MESALAZINE’:tn OR ‘MESASAL’:tn OR ‘MESAZIN’:tn OR ‘MEZAVANT’:tn OR  ‘PENTACOL’:tn OR ‘PENTASA’:tn OR ‘QUINTASA’:tn OR ‘RAFASSAL’:tn OR ‘ROWASA’:tn OR  ‘SALOFALK’:tn OR ‘SF ROWASA’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   203.  Oxycodone   ‘OXYCODONE’ OR ‘OXYCODONUM’ OR ‘OKSIKODONI’ OR ‘OXICODONA’ OR ‘ABTARD’:tn OR  ‘ACCORDEON’:tn OR ‘ALNAGON’:tn OR ‘CANDOX’:tn OR ‘CARENOXA’:tn OR ‘CARENOXAL’:tn OR  ‘CARENOXIN’:tn OR ‘CAREXIL’:tn OR ‘CHLORHIDRAT DE OXICODONA’:tn OR ‘CODILEK’:tn OR  ‘CODOXY’:tn OR ‘CONTIROXIL’:tn OR ‘CONTIROXIN’:tn OR ‘DALOXY’:tn OR ‘DANCEX SR’:tn OR  ‘DOLANOR’:tn OR ‘DOLOCODON’:tn OR ‘DOLONICA’:tn OR ‘ELENOXY’:tn OR ‘LONGTEC’:tn OR  ‘OKSIKODOLOR’:tn OR ‘OKSIKODON LEK’:tn OR ‘OKSIKODON VITABALANS’:tn OR ‘OKSYKODON’:tn  OR ‘OLBETE’:tn OR ‘ORIONOX’:tn OR ‘OXANEST’:tn OR ‘OXARUTIS’:tn OR ‘OXICODONE’:tn OR  ‘OXIDOL’:tn OR ‘OXIDOLOR’:tn OR ‘OXIKODON’:tn OR ‘OXIMEL’:tn OR ‘OXYCODOLOR’:tn OR  ‘OXYCODON’:tn OR ‘OXYCODONE’:tn OR ‘OXYCODONHYDROCHLORID’:tn OR ‘OXYCON’:tn OR  ‘OXYCONICA’:tn OR ‘OXYCONICUR’:tn OR ‘OXYCONOICA’:tn OR ‘OXYCONTIN’:tn OR ‘OXYDOL’:tn OR  ‘OXYDOLOR’:tn OR ‘OXYDON’:tn OR ‘OXYDORINE’:tn OR ‘OXYGEROLAN’:tn OR ‘OXYGESIC’:tn OR  ‘OXYKODON’:tn OR ‘OXYKODÓN ACINO’:tn OR ‘OXYLAN’:tn OR ‘OXYLENE’:tn OR ‘OXYLOR’:tn OR  ‘OXYNAL’:tn OR ‘OXYNORM’:tn OR ‘OXYNORMORO’:tn OR ‘OXYPRO’:tn OR ‘OXYQUALES’:tn OR  ‘OXYREDIT LP’:tn OR ‘OXYTIA’:tn OR ‘OXYTOM’:tn OR ‘OYXCODON’:tn OR ‘PANCOD’:tn OR  ‘PAROXANAL’:tn OR ‘REDOCAM’:tn OR ‘RELTEBON’:tn OR ‘RENOCONICA’:tn OR ‘RENOCONTIN’:tn OR  ‘RENOXAL’:tn OR ‘SHORTEC’:tn OR ‘TARGIN’:tn OR ‘TARGINACT’:tn OR ‘TARGINIQ’:tn OR ‘UNADEN’:tn  OR ‘XANCODAL’:tn OR ‘ZACRENOXIN’:tn OR ‘ZARENOXIN’:tn OR ‘ZOMESTINE’:tn OR ‘ENDONE’:tn OR  ‘IRCODON’:tn OR ‘OXICODONA’:tn OR ‘OXIFAST’:tn OR ‘OXINORM’:tn OR ‘OXY IR’:tn OR ‘OXYCOD’:tn  OR ‘OXYCODON’:tn OR ‘OXYCONTIN’:tn OR ‘OXYDON’:tn OR ‘OXYGESIC’:tn OR ‘OXYIR’:tn OR  ‘OXYNEO’:tn OR ‘OXYNORM’:tn OR ‘PAVINAL’:tn OR ‘PERCOLONE’:tn OR ‘PMS -OXYCODONE’:tn OR  ‘PROLADONE’:tn OR ‘ROXICODONE’:tn OR ‘SUPEUDOL’:tn OR ‘TARGIN’:tn OR ‘TARGINACT’:tn AND     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 228/368   ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti  OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   204.  Beclometasone   ‘BECLOMETASONE’ OR ‘BECLAZONE EASI -BREATHE CFC -FREE’:tn OR ‘BECLO -ASMA’:tn OR ‘BECLOMET  EASYHALER’:tn OR ‘BECLOMET NASAL AQUA’:tn OR ‘BECLOMET ORION’:tn OR ‘BECLOMETASON’:tn OR  ‘BECLOMETASONA’:tn OR ‘BECLOMETASONE’:tn ‘BECLATE AQUANASE’:tn OR ‘BECLO AQ’:tn OR  ‘BECLO ASMA’:tn OR ‘BECLOMETASON A’:tn OR ‘BECLOMETASON’:tn OR ‘BECLOMETASON  CYCLOCAPS’:tn OR ‘BECLOMETASON NEVEL’:tn OR ‘BECLOMETASON NEVEL PCH’:tn OR  ‘BECLOMETASON NEVEL’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   205.  Carbamazepine   ‘CARBAMAZEPINE’ OR ‘CARBAMAZEPINĂ’ OR ‘CARBAMAZEPINUM’ OR ‘CARBAMAZÉPINE’ OR  ‘CARBAMAZEPINA’ OR ‘AMIZEPIN’:tn OR ‘BISTON’:tn OR ‘CARBABETA’:tn OR ‘CARBADURA’:tn OR  ‘CARBAFLUX’:tn OR ‘CARBAGAMMA’:tn OR ‘CARBAGEN’:tn OR ‘CARBALEX’:tn OR ‘CARBAMAZEPIN’:tn  OR ‘CARBAMAZEPINE’:tn OR ‘CARBATOL’:tn OR ‘CARBEPSIL’:tn OR ‘CARBESIL’:tn OR ‘FINLEPSIN’:tn  OR ‘GERICARB’:tn OR ‘HERMOLEPSIN’:tn OR ‘KARBAMAZEPIN’:tn OR ‘NEUROTOL’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 229/368   ‘NEUROTOP’:tn OR ‘OXCARBAZEPINA’:tn OR ‘STAZEPINE’:tn OR ‘STORILAT’:tn OR ‘SYNTOPINE’:tn OR  ‘TAVER’:tn OR ‘TEGRETAL’:tn OR ‘TEGRETOL’:tn OR ‘TIMONIL’:tn OR ‘TRIMONIL’:tn OR ‘CARBA’:tn OR  ‘CARBALEX’:tn OR ‘CARBAMAZEPIN’:tn OR ‘CARBAMAZEPINA’:tn OR ‘CARBAMAZEPINE’:tn OR  ‘CARBATOL’:tn OR ‘CARBATROL’:tn OR ‘CARBAZURE’:tn OR ‘CARSOL’:tn OR ‘DEGRANOL’:tn OR  ‘EPAZIN’:tn OR ‘EPIMAZ’:tn OR ‘EPITOL’:tn OR ‘EQUETRO’:tn OR ‘FINLEPSIN’:tn OR ‘FOKALEPSIN’:tn  OR ‘LEXIN’:tn OR ‘MAZEPINE’:tn OR ‘NEUROTOP’:tn OR ‘PANITOL’:tn OR ‘SIRTAL’:tn OR ‘TAVER’:tn OR  ‘TEGRETAL’:tn OR ‘TEGRETOL’:tn OR ‘TELESMIN’:tn OR ‘TERIL’:tn OR ‘TIMONIL’:tn OR ‘TRIMONIL’:tn  OR ‘ZEPTOL’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   206.  Eplerenone   ‘EPLERENONE’ OR ‘EPLERENON’ OR ‘EPLERENONA’ OR ‘EPLERENÓN’ OR ‘EPLERENONĂ’ OR  ‘EPLERENONĂ’ OR ‘EPLERENONU’ OR ‘EPLERENONA’ OR ‘EPLERENONO’ OR ‘EPLERENONUM’ OR  ‘EPLERENÓNI’ OR ‘ÉPLÉRÉNONE’ OR ‘EPLÉRÉNONE’ OR ‘EPLERENONIA’ OR ‘EPLERENOONI’ OR  ‘EPLERENONA’ OR ‘EPLERENONUM’ OR ‘ALDOPLEWEL’:tn OR ‘ALDOSPIR’:tn OR ‘CORENON’:tn OR  ‘DIUPLEWEL’:tn OR ‘ELBERONE’:tn OR ‘ELECOR’:tn OR ‘ELEVEON’:tn OR ‘EPLENOCARD’:tn OR  ‘EPLERENHEXAL’:tn OR ‘EPLERENON’:tn OR ‘EPLERENONA’:tn OR ‘EPLERENONE’:tn OR  ‘EPLERENOTIF’:tn OR ‘EPLERIUM’:tn OR ‘EPLEWEL’:tn OR ‘EPLOHART’:tn OR ‘EPLON’:tn OR  ‘ERNETHON’:tn OR ‘INOSAMIN’:tn OR ‘INSPRA’:tn OR ‘INSPRA 25’:tn OR ‘KALIREN’:tn OR  ‘KALSPAR’:tn OR ‘LICEPLER’:tn OR ‘MENOXOL’:tn OR ‘NONPRES’:tn OR ‘PLERENIA’:tn OR  ‘RAASBLOCK’:tn OR ‘INSPRA’:tn OR ‘SELARA’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 230/368   contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   207.  Fenofibrate   ‘FENOFIBRATE’ OR ‘PROPAN -2-YL 2-[4-(4-CHLOROBENZOYL)PHENOXY] -2-METHYLPROPANOATE’ OR  ‘FENOFIBRÁT’ OR ‘FENOFIBRAT’ OR ‘FENOFIBRATO’ OR ‘FENOFIBRAT’ OR ‘FENOFIBRĀTS’ OR  ‘FENOFIBRĀTA’ OR ‘FENOFIBRATAS’ OR ‘FENOFIBRATUM’ OR ‘FENOFIBRATO’ OR ‘FENOFIBRÁT’ OR  ‘FÉNOFIBRATE’ OR ‘FENOFIBRAATTIA’ OR ‘FENOFIBRATO’ OR ‘FENOFIBRAT’ OR ‘APTEOR’:tn OR  ‘BIOFIBRAT’:tn OR ‘CATALIP’:tn OR ‘DURAFENAT’:tn OR ‘ELIPSIA’:tn OR ‘FEBIRA’:tn OR ‘FEGENOR’:tn  OR ‘FENARDIN’:tn OR ‘FENOBRAT’:tn OR ‘FENOFIBRAT’:tn OR ‘FENOFIBRATE’:tn OR ‘FENOFIBRATO’:tn  OR ‘FENOFIX’:tn OR ‘FENOGAL’:tn OR ‘FENOLIBS’:tn OR ‘FENORATIO’:tn OR ‘FENOSUP LIDOSE’:tn OR  ‘FENOSWISS’:tn OR ‘FENYVE’:tn OR ‘FIBRANOR’:tn OR ‘FORTILIP’:tn OR ‘FULCRO’:tn OR  ‘FULCROSUPRA’:tn OR ‘GROFIBRAT’:tn OR ‘KATALIP’:tn OR ‘LIPANTHYL’:tn OR ‘LIPANTHYLNANO’:tn  OR ‘LIPANTIL’:tn OR ‘LIPCOR’:tn OR ‘LIPERIAL’:tn OR ‘LIPICLAIR’:tn OR ‘LIPIDIL’:tn OR ‘LIPILFEN’:tn  OR ‘LIPIREX’:tn OR ‘LIPIVIM’:tn OR ‘LIPOFEN’:tn OR ‘LIPOFENE’:tn OR ‘LIPOFIB’:tn OR ‘LIPOHEXAL’:tn  OR ‘LIPSIN’:tn OR ‘NORMALIP’:tn OR ‘SECALIP’:tn OR ‘SUPRALIP’:tn OR ‘SUPRELIP’:tn OR ‘TRICOR’:tn  OR ‘TRIGLIPO’:tn OR ‘XAFENOR’:tn OR ‘ZIGLIP’:tn OR ‘ANTARA’:tn OR ‘CATALIP’:tn OR  ‘CONTROLIP’:tn OR ‘FEBIRA’:tn OR ‘FENOFIBRAT’:tn OR ‘FENOFIBRATE’:tn OR ‘FENOFIBRATO’:tn OR  ‘FENOFIX’:tn OR ‘FENOGAL’:tn OR ‘FENOGLIDE’:tn OR ‘FENOMAX’:tn OR ‘GROFIBRAT’:tn OR  ‘LIPANON’:tn OR ‘LIPANTHYL’:tn OR ‘LIPANTIL’:tn OR ‘LIPIDIL’:tn OR ‘LIPILFEN’:tn OR ‘LIPOFEN’:tn OR  ‘LIPOFENE’:tn OR ‘LIPOTHIN’:tn OR ‘LIPSIN’:tn OR ‘LOFIBRA’:tn OR ‘NOVO -FENOFIBRATE -S’:tn OR  ‘NUBREX’:tn OR ‘PMS -FENOFIBRATE MICRO’:tn OR ‘PRO -FENO -SUPER’:tn OR ‘PROCETOKEN’:tn OR  ‘SECALIP’:tn OR ‘SUPRALIP’:tn OR ‘TRICOR’:tn OR ‘TRIGLIDE’:tn OR ‘TRILIPIX’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   208.  Somatropin   ‘SOMATROPIN’ OR ‘SOMATOTROPHIN’ OR ‘SOMATROPINE’ OR ‘SOMATOTROPINA’ OR ‘SOMATOTROPIN’  OR ‘SOMATROPIN’ OR ‘SOMATROPINA’ OR ‘SOMATROPÍN’ OR ‘SOMATROPINĂ’ OR ‘SOMATOTROPINĂ’  OR ‘SOMATROPINA’ OR ‘SOMATROPINO’ OR ‘SOMATROPINUM’ OR ‘SOMATROPINA’ OR ‘SÓMATRÓPÍN’  OR ‘SZOMATROPIN’ OR ‘SOMATROPIINIA’ OR ‘SOMATROPIINI’ OR ‘SOMATROPIIN’ OR ‘RUSTOVÝ  HORMON’:tn OR ‘СОМАТРОПИН’:tn OR ‘GENOTONORM’:tn OR ‘GENOTROPIN’:tn OR ‘HUMATROPE’:tn     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 231/368   OR ‘NUTROPINAQ’:tn OR ‘OMNITROPE’:tn OR ‘SAIZEN’:tn OR ‘SOMATROPIN’:tn OR ‘UMATROPE’:tn OR  ‘ZOMACTON’:tn OR ‘BIO -TROPIN’:tn OR ‘GENOTONORM’:tn OR ‘GENOTROPIN’:tn OR ‘HUMATROPE’:tn  OR ‘NORDILET’:tn OR ‘NORDITROPIN’:tn OR ‘NORDITROPINE’:tn OR ‘NUTROPIN’:tn OR  ‘NUTROPINAQ’:tn OR ‘OMNITROPE’:tn OR ‘SAIZEN’:tn OR ‘SCITROPIN A’:tn OR ‘SEROSTIM’:tn OR  ‘TEV-TROPIN’:tn OR ‘ZOMACTON’:tn OR ‘ZORBTIVE’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   209.  Trimetazidina   ‘TRIMETAZIDINA’ OR ‘TRIMETAZIDINAS’ OR ‘TRIMETAZIDINUM’ OR ‘TRIMÉTAZIDINE’ OR  ‘TRIMETAZIDINA’ OR ‘ANGITRIM’:tn OR ‘ANPECTIDINE’:tn OR ‘APOTRIMET’:tn OR ‘APSTAR’:tn OR  ‘DILATAN’:tn OR ‘DIMESAR’:tn OR ‘IDAPTAN’:tn OR ‘LUPAMADAZIN’:tn OR ‘LUTRAZINE’:tn OR  ‘METAZYDYNA’:tn OR ‘MEZITAN’:tn OR ‘MODUXIN’:tn OR ‘PREDUCTAL’:tn OR ‘PREDUTRIM’:tn OR  ‘PROSC’:tn OR ‘SETAL MR’:tn OR ‘TACIREL LM’:tn OR ‘TRIM’:tn OR ‘TRIACYT MR’:tn OR  ‘TRIMEDUCTAN’:tn OR ‘TRIMELUZINE’:tn OR ‘TRIMEPECT’:tn OR ‘TRIMETARATIO’:tn OR  ‘TRIMETAZIDIN’:tn OR ‘TRIMETAZIDIN’:tn OR ‘TRIMETAZIDINA’:tn OR ‘TRIMETAZIDINE’:tn OR  ‘TRIMETAZYDYNA’:tn OR ‘TRIMPOL’:tn OR ‘VASCOTASIN’:tn OR ‘VASCOTAZIN’:tn OR ‘VASTAREL’:tn  OR ‘VAZIDIN’:tn OR ‘ZIDIN’:tn OR ‘ZIDMETIN’:tn OR ‘ZILUTRA’:tn OR ‘DILATAN’:tn OR  ‘PREDUCTAL’:tn OR ‘TRIMETACOR’:tn OR ‘TRIMETAZIDINA’:tn OR ‘TRIMETAZIDINE’:tn OR  ‘TRIZIDINE’:tn OR ‘VASOFIX’:tn OR ‘VASTAREL’:tn OR ‘VASTINAN’:tn OR ‘VESTAR’:tn AND ('adverse  drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR  'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 232/368   OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   210.  Bisacodyl   ‘BISACODYL’ OR ‘BISAKODYL’ OR ‘BISAKODILA’ OR ‘BISACODYLUM’ OR ‘BISACODIL’ OR ‘BISACODIL’  OR ‘BISAKODYLU’ OR ‘BISAKODILS’ OR ‘BISAKODILIS’ OR ‘BISACODYLUM’ OR ‘BISACODILE’ OR  ‘BISACODYLUM’ OR ‘BISZAKODIL’ OR ‘BISAKODIL’ OR ‘BISAKODILA’ OR ‘BISACODYL’ OR  ‘BISAKODÜÜL’ OR ‘BISACODILO’ OR ‘BISACODYL’ OR ‘BISACODYL’ OR ‘BISACODYLUM’ OR ‘ALAXA’:tn  OR ‘BIOLAX’:tn OR ‘BISACODYL’:tn OR ‘BISALAX’:tn OR ‘BISOLAX’:tn OR ‘CONFETTO’:tn OR  ‘CONTALAX’:tn OR ‘DRIX’:tn OR ‘DULCOBIS’:tn OR ‘DULCOLAX’:tn OR ‘DULCOLAX’:tn OR  ‘ENTROLAX’:tn OR ‘FENOLAX’:tn OR ‘HEMOLAX’:tn OR ‘BISACODYL’:tn OR ‘LAX -TAB’:tn OR ‘LAXA - GIT’:tn OR ‘LAXABIXAL’:tn OR ‘LAXADIN’:tn OR ‘LAXAGETTEN’:tn OR ‘LAXAMAG’:tn OR ‘LAXANS’:tn OR  ‘LAXANS’:tn OR ‘LAXBENE’:tn OR ‘LAXODIL’:tn OR ‘LOVOLDYL’:tn OR ‘MEDIOLAX’:tn OR ‘METALAX’:tn  OR ‘MODERLAX’:tn OR ‘NORMALAX’:tn OR ‘NORMALENE’:tn OR ‘NOURILAX LAXEERMIDDEL’:tn OR  ‘NOVOLAX’:tn OR ‘NUMARK’:tn OR ‘PERILAX’:tn OR ‘PREPACOL’:tn OR ‘PURGO -PIL’:tn OR ‘PYRILAX’:tn  OR ‘STADALAX’:tn OR ‘STIXENIL’:tn OR ‘TIRGON’:tn OR ‘TOILAX’:tn OR ‘VERECOLENE’:tn OR  ‘BEKUNIS’:tn OR ‘BICOLAX’:tn OR ‘BISAC -EVAC’:tn OR ‘BISACODYL’:tn OR ‘BISACOLAX’:tn OR  ‘BISALAX’:tn OR ‘BISCOLAX’:tn OR ‘CORRECTOL’:tn OR ‘DILAX’:tn OR ‘DULAX’:tn OR ‘DULCO LAXO’:tn  OR ‘DULCOLAX’:tn OR ‘DUROLAX’:tn OR ‘GENTLAX’:tn OR ‘GLYCOPREP -C’:tn OR ‘LAXADIN’:tn OR  ‘LAXANS’:tn OR ‘NOURILAX LAXEERMIDDEL’:tn OR ‘PMS -BISACODYL’:tn OR ‘PREPACOL’:tn OR  ‘PRONTOLAX’:tn OR ‘SOFTENE’:tn OR ‘TELEMINSOFT’:tn OR ‘THE MAGIC BULLET’:tn AND ('adverse  drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR  'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   211.  Buprenorphine   ‘BUPRENORPHINE’ OR ‘BUPRENORFIN’ OR ‘BUPRENORFÍN’ OR ‘BUPRENORFINĂ’ OR ‘BUPRENORFINA’  OR ‘BUPRENORFINA’ OR ‘BUPRENORFĪNA’ OR ‘BUPRENORFINO’ OR ‘BUPRENORPHINUM’ OR  ‘BUPRENORFINA’ OR ‘BÚPRENORFÍN’ OR ‘BUPRENORFIN’ OR ‘BUPRENORFIN’ OR ‘BUPRÉNORPHINE’ OR  ‘BUPRENORFIINI’ OR ‘BUPRENORFIIN’ OR ‘BUPRENORFINA’ OR ‘BUPRENORPHIN’ OR ‘BUPRENORPHIN’  OR ‘BUPRENORFIN’ OR ‘BUPRENORPHINUM’ OR ‘ACIMAPHIN’:tn OR ‘ACINORPHIN’:tn OR  ‘ADDICTEX’:tn OR ‘ADDNOK’:tn OR ‘ASTEC 70 MCG’:tn OR ‘BUNONDOL’:tn OR ‘BUNORFIN’:tn OR  ‘BUP’:tn OR ‘BUPENSAN’:tn OR ‘BUPRADEX’:tn OR ‘BUPRELOR’:tn OR ‘BUPRENADDICT’:tn OR  ‘BUPRENAL’:tn OR ‘BUPRENORFINA’:tn OR ‘BUPRENORFINE’:tn OR ‘BUPRENORPHIN’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 233/368   ‘BUPRENORPHINE’:tn OR ‘BUPREX’:tn OR ‘BUTRANS’:tn OR ‘BUVERA’:tn OR ‘CANUR’:tn OR  ‘CETARKAN’:tn OR ‘FELIBEN’:tn OR ‘HAPOCTASIN’:tn OR ‘KENNAF’:tn OR ‘MOLTERFIN’:tn OR  ‘NATZON’:tn OR ‘NORSPAN’:tn OR ‘NORVIPREN’:tn OR ‘PREFIBIN’:tn OR ‘PRENORVINE’:tn OR  ‘PRENOTRIX’:tn OR ‘RAMATRIX’:tn OR ‘RAVATA’:tn OR ‘SUBOXONE’:tn OR ‘SUBUPHINE’:tn OR  ‘SUBUTEX’:tn OR ‘TEMGESIC’:tn OR ‘TEMGESIC’:tn OR ‘TEMGÉSIC’:tn OR ‘TEPHINE’:tn OR  ‘TRANSTEC’:tn OR ‘BUPRENEX’:tn OR ‘BUPRENORFINE’:tn OR ‘BUTRANS’:tn OR ‘LEPETAN’:tn OR  ‘NORSPAN’:tn OR ‘SUBOXONE’:tn OR ‘SUBUTEX’:tn OR ‘TEMGESIC’:tn OR ‘TEMGESIC’:tn OR  ‘TRANSTEC’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   212.  Oxybutynin   ‘OXYBUTYNIN’ OR ‘OXYBUTYNINUM’ OR ‘OXYBUTYNINE’ OR ‘OXIBUTININA’ OR ‘BENOXI’:tn OR  ‘CYSTRIN’:tn OR ‘DETRUSAN’:tn OR ‘DITROPAN’:tn OR ‘DRESPLAN’:tn OR ‘DRIDASE’:tn OR  ‘DRIPTANE’:tn OR ‘EURIN’:tn OR ‘KENTERA’:tn OR ‘LYRINEL’:tn OR ‘OSSIBUTININA CLORIDRATO’:tn  OR ‘OXYBUGAMMA’:tn OR ‘OXYBUTYN HCL GENTHON’:tn OR ‘OXYBUTYNIN’:tn OR ‘OXYBUTYNIN’:tn OR  ‘OXYBUTYNIN -HCL’:tn OR ‘OXYBUTYNINEHYDROCHLORIDE’:tn OR ‘OXYBUTYNINHYDROCHLORID’:tn  OR ‘SPASYT’:tn OR ‘UNICHEM OXYBUTYNINEHYDROCHLORIDE’:tn OR ‘UROXAL’:tn OR  ‘OXYBUTYNIN’:tn OR ‘CYSTRIN’:tn OR ‘DELAIV’:tn OR ‘DITROPAN’:tn OR ‘DRIDASE’:tn OR  ‘DRIPTANE’:tn OR ‘FRENURIN’:tn OR ‘GELNIQUE’:tn OR ‘KENTERA’:tn OR ‘LENDITRO’:tn OR  ‘LYRINEL’:tn OR ‘OXYBUTYNIN’:tn OR ‘NELUOS’:tn OR ‘NEOXY’:tn OR ‘NOVITROPAN’:tn OR  ‘OXYBUTYNIN’:tn OR ‘ORIVATE’:tn OR ‘OXYBUTIN’:tn OR ‘OXYBUTON’:tn OR ‘OXYBUTYN’:tn OR  ‘OXYBUTYNIN’:tn OR ‘OXYTROL’:tn OR ‘OXYBUTYNIN’:tn OR ‘POLLAKISU’:tn OR ‘POSTININ’:tn OR  ‘RETEMIC’:tn OR ‘UREQUIN’:tn OR ‘UROMAX’:tn OR ‘UROPAN’:tn OR ‘UROXAL’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 234/368   'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   213.  Tamoxifen   ‘TAMOXIFEN’ OR ‘TAMOXIFÉN’ OR ‘TAMOXIFENUM’ OR ‘TAMOXIFENE’ OR ‘TAMOXIFÈNE’ OR  ‘TAMOXIFENO’ OR ‘EBEFEN’:tn OR ‘KESSAR’:tn OR ‘NOMAFEN’:tn OR ‘NOVOFEN’:tn OR ‘SERTAM’:tn OR  ‘TADEX’:tn OR ‘TAMIFEN’:tn OR ‘TAMIZAM’:tn OR ‘TAMO AIWA’:tn OR ‘TAMOFEN’:tn OR ‘TAMOPLEX’:tn  OR ‘TAMOX’:tn OR ‘TAMOXAN’:tn OR ‘TAMOXIFEN’:tn OR ‘TAMOXIFEN’:tn OR ‘TAMOXIFENO’:tn OR  ‘TAMOXISTAD’:tn OR ‘ZITAZONIUM’:tn OR ‘ZYMOPLEX’:tn OR ‘ADOPAN’:tn OR ‘TAMOX’:tn OR  ‘EMALOOK’:tn OR ‘GENOX’:tn OR ‘KESSAR’:tn OR ‘NEOPHEDAN’:tn OR ‘NOLVADEX’:tn OR  ‘NOURYTAM’:tn OR ‘TAMEC’:tn OR ‘TAMIFEN’:tn OR ‘TAMOFEN’:tn OR ‘TAMOPLEX’:tn OR ‘TAMOX’:tn  OR ‘TAMOXEN’:tn OR ‘TAMOXI’:tn OR ‘TAMOXIFEN’:tn OR ‘TAMOXIFENE’:tn OR ‘TAMOXIFENO’:tn OR  ‘TASUOMIN’:tn OR ‘TAXUS’:tn OR ‘TAMOXIFEN’:tn OR ‘XIFEN’:tn OR ‘ZEMIDE’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   214.  Zopiclone   ‘ZOPICLONE’ OR ‘ZOPICLONUM’ OR ‘ZOPICLON’ OR ‘ZOPIKLÓN’ OR ‘ZOPICLONA’ OR ‘ZOPIKLON’ OR  ‘ZOPIKLON’ OR ‘ZOPIKLONS’ OR ‘ZOPIKLONAS’ OR ‘ZOPICLONUM’ OR ‘ZOPIKLON’ OR ‘ZOPICLONE’ OR  ‘TSOPIKLONI’ OR ‘ZOPIKLOON’ OR ‘ZOPICLONA’ OR ‘ZOPICLON’ OR ‘DATOLÁN’ OR ‘DOBROSON’:tn OR  ‘IMOCLONE’:tn OR ‘IMOVANE’:tn OR ‘IMOZOP’:tn OR ‘LIMOVAN’:tn OR ‘SENZOP’:tn OR ‘SIATEN’:tn OR  ‘SOMNAL’:tn OR ‘SOMNOL’:tn OR ‘SOMNOLS’:tn OR ‘SOMNOSAN’:tn OR ‘SONLAX’:tn OR ‘XIMOVAN’:tn  OR ‘ZILEZE’:tn OR ‘ZIMOVANE’:tn OR ‘ZOPICALMA’:tn OR ‘ZOPICLODURA’:tn OR ‘ZOPICLON’:tn OR  ‘ZOPICLONE’:tn OR ‘ZOPIGEN’:tn OR ‘ZOPIKLON’:tn OR ‘ZOPINOX’:tn OR ‘ZOPITABS’:tn OR  ‘ZOPITAN’:tn OR ‘ZOPI’:tn OR ‘ZOPITIDIN’:tn OR ‘ZOPITIN’:tn OR ‘ZORCLONE’:tn OR ‘ALCHERA’:tn OR  ‘AMOBAN’:tn OR ‘AMOBANTES’:tn OR ‘DATOLAN’:tn OR ‘DOPAREEL’:tn OR ‘IMOVANE’:tn OR  ‘IMOZOP’:tn OR ‘IMREST’:tn OR ‘METROM’:tn OR ‘NOCTURNO’:tn OR ‘RELAXON’:tn OR ‘RHOVANE’:tn  OR ‘SLOWHEIM’:tn OR ‘SOMNOL’:tn OR ‘XIMOVAN’:tn OR ‘ZETIX’:tn OR ‘ZIMOVANE’:tn OR  ‘ZOLINOX’:tn OR ‘ZOLON’:tn OR ‘ZOP’:tn OR ‘ZOPICLON’:tn OR ‘ZOPICLONE’:tn OR ‘ZOPICOOL’:tn OR  ‘ZOPIMED’:tn OR ‘ZOPINOX’:tn OR ‘ZOPITAN’:tn OR ‘ZOPIVANE’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 235/368   OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   215.  Brimonidine   ‘BRIMONIDINE’ OR ‘BRIMONIDINUM’ OR ‘BRIMONIDINA’ OR ‘ALFADINA’:tn OR ‘ALPHAGAN’:tn OR  ‘ALPHASTAD’:tn OR ‘BENIL’:tn OR ‘BGLAU’:tn OR ‘BIMANOX’:tn OR ‘BIPROLAST’:tn OR ‘BRIGLAU’:tn  OR ‘BRIMO OPHTAL’:tn OR ‘BRIMO -VISION’:tn OR ‘BRIMODINE’:tn OR ‘BRIMODIOL’:tn OR  ‘BRIMOFTAL’:tn OR ‘BRIMOGAN’:tn OR ‘BRIMOGEN’:tn OR ‘BRIMONAL’:tn OR ‘BRIMONIDIN’:tn OR  ‘BRIMONIDINETARTAAT’:tn OR ‘BRIMONIDINETARTRAAT’:tn OR ‘BRIMONIDINTARTRAT’:tn OR  ‘BRIMONTAL’:tn OR ‘BRIMORATIO’:tn OR ‘BRIMOSTAD’:tn OR ‘BRIMOT’:tn OR ‘BRIMO’:tn OR  ‘BRIMOZEPT’:tn OR ‘BRINIDIN’:tn OR ‘BRYMONT’:tn OR ‘CLARIX’:tn OR ‘CORNEAX’:tn OR  ‘GLAUBRIM’:tn OR ‘GLAUCOVAL’:tn OR ‘GLAUDIN’:tn OR ‘GLAUDIX’:tn OR ‘LUXFEN’:tn OR  ‘MIRVASO’:tn OR ‘MOBRIDIN’:tn OR ‘PHARMEXIN’:tn OR ‘REIA’:tn OR ‘ALPHAGAN’:tn OR  ‘BRIMONIDINE’:tn OR ‘BRIMOPRESS’:tn OR ‘ENIDIN’:tn OR ‘MIRVASO’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 236/368   216.  Cisatracurium Besilate   ‘CISATRACURIUM BESILATE’ OR ‘BESILATE DE CISATRACURIUM’ OR ‘CISATRAKURIUM BESYLATU’ OR  ‘BESILATO DE CISATRACURIO’ OR ‘CISATRAKURIOWEGO BEZYLANU’ OR ‘CISATRACURIUMBESILAAT’  OR ‘CISATRAKURA BESILATA’ OR ‘CISATRAKURIO BESILATO’ OR ‘CISATRACURII BESILAS’ OR  ‘BÉSILATE DE CISATRACURIUM’ OR ‘BESILATE DE CISATRACURIUM’ OR ‘TSISATRAKUURBESILAAT’ OR  ‘BESILATO DE CISATRACURIO’ OR ‘CISATRACURIUMBESILAT’ OR ‘CISATRACURIUMBESYLAT’ OR  ‘CISATRACURII BESILAS’ OR ‘CEMET’:tn OR ‘CISATRACURIO’:tn OR ‘CISATRACURIUM’:tn OR  ‘CISATRAL’:tn OR ‘NIMBEX’:tn OR ‘CISATRACURIUM’:tn OR ‘NIMBEX’:tn OR ‘NIMBIUM’:tn AND  ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti  OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   217.  Mikonazol   ‘MIKONAZOL’ OR ‘MICONAZOLUM’ OR ‘MICONAZOLO’ OR ‘MICONAZOLE’ OR ‘MICONAZOL’ OR  ‘MICONAZOL’ OR ‘ACNEPLUS’:tn OR ‘ACNIDAZIL’:tn OR ‘MICONAZOLNITRAAT’:tn OR ‘CANDIPLAS’:tn  OR ‘CATRIGEL’:tn OR ‘DAKTAR’:tn OR ‘DAKTARIN’:tn OR ‘DERMA -MYKOTRAL’:tn OR ‘DOMYCOTIN’:tn  OR ‘EXPECTEIN’:tn OR ‘FANTERSOL’:tn OR ‘FEMINELLA’:tn OR ‘FINICORT’:tn OR ‘FLENAZOLE’:tn OR  ‘FLUNIPROL’:tn OR ‘FLUNOVON’:tn OR ‘FOSEMYK’:tn OR ‘FUNGISDIN’:tn OR ‘DAKTARIN’:tn OR  ‘FEMIDAZOL’:tn OR ‘GYNO -MYKOTRAL’:tn OR ‘MICONAZOLNITRAAT’:tn OR ‘LORAMYC’:tn OR  ‘MICOFLUP’:tn OR ‘MICOGEN GENEPHARM’:tn OR ‘MICONAL’:tn OR ‘MICONAZOLE NITRATE’:tn OR  ‘MICONAZOLNITRAAT’:tn OR ‘MICONAZOLNITRAT’:tn OR ‘MICOTAR’:tn OR ‘MICOTEF’:tn OR  ‘MYCOSOLON’:tn OR ‘NIZACOL’:tn OR ‘NUTRACEL’:tn OR ‘PANDERM’:tn OR ‘PANMYK’:tn OR ‘PRILAGIN  (GINECOLOGICO)’:tn OR ‘ROJAZOL’:tn OR ‘SARMEL’:tn OR ‘TIBOZOLE’:tn OR ‘TREKPLEISTER  ANTISCHIMMELCRÈME MICONAZOLNITRAAT 20 MG/G’:tn OR ‘UNTANO’:tn OR ‘VERDAL’:tn OR  ‘VOBADERM’:tn OR ‘VOBAMYK’:tn OR ‘ACNECARE’:tn OR ‘ALOE VESTA’:tn OR ‘BAZA’:tn OR  ‘CONAZOL’:tn OR ‘DAKTANOL’:tn OR ‘DAKTARIN’:tn OR ‘DECODERM’:tn OR ‘DESENEX’:tn OR  ‘EULACTOL’:tn OR ‘FLORID’:tn OR ‘DAKTARIN’:tn OR ‘LORAMYC’:tn OR ‘LOTRIMIN AF ANTIFUNGAL’:tn  OR ‘MICATIN’:tn OR ‘MICONAZOLNITRAAT’:tn OR ‘MICOTAR’:tn OR ‘MICRO -GUARD’:tn OR  ‘MITRAZOL’:tn OR ‘MONISTAT -DERM’:tn OR ‘ORAVIG’:tn OR ‘TIBOZOLE’:tn OR ‘ZEASORB’:tn AND  ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti  OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 237/368   'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   218.  Roxithromycin   ‘ROXITHROMYCIN’ OR ‘ROKSYTROMYCYNA’ OR ‘ROXITHROMYCINUM’ OR ‘ROXITHROMYCINE’ OR  ‘ROXITROMICINA’ OR ‘ROXITHROMYCIN’ OR ‘ASMETIC’:tn OR ‘ASSORAL’:tn OR ‘CLARAMID’:tn OR  ‘ERYBROS’:tn OR ‘MACROLID’:tn OR ‘NEO -SUXIGAL’:tn OR ‘NIROX’:tn OR ‘ODONTICINA’:tn OR  ‘OVERAL’:tn OR ‘RENICIN’:tn OR ‘ROLICYN’:tn OR ‘ROSSITROL’:tn OR ‘ROXI’:tn OR ‘ROXIBRON’:tn OR  ‘ROXIDURA’:tn OR ‘ROXIGAMMA’:tn OR ‘ROXIMIN’:tn OR ‘ROXIMSTAD’:tn OR ‘ROXIN’:tn OR  ‘ROXITHRO’:tn OR ‘ROXITHROMYCIN’:tn OR ‘ROXITHROMYCINE’:tn OR ‘ROXITHROSTAD’:tn OR  ‘ROXITROMYCINE’:tn OR ‘ROXIVINOL’:tn OR ‘ROXON’:tn OR ‘ROXURIL’:tn OR ‘ROXYSPES’:tn OR  ‘RULID’:tn OR ‘RULIDE’:tn OR ‘SEIDE’:tn OR ‘SURLID’:tn OR ‘TOSCAMYCIN’:tn OR ‘VOMITORAN’:tn OR  ‘XITROCIN’:tn OR ‘ΜAXIROX’:tn OR ‘AZURIL’:tn OR ‘BIAXSIG’:tn OR ‘ROXAR’:tn OR ‘ROXIMYCIN’:tn  OR ‘ROXITHROMYCIN’:tn OR ‘ROXY’:tn OR ‘RULICIN’:tn OR ‘RULID’:tn OR ‘RULIDE’:tn AND ('adverse  drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR  'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   219.  Simeticone   ‘SIMETICONE’ OR ‘ACTIVATED DIMETICONE’ OR ‘DIMETICONE ATTIVATO’ OR ‘SIMÉTHICONE’ OR  ‘ACTONORM’:tn OR ‘AERO -OM’:tn OR ‘AEROCOL’:tn OR ‘AEROOM’:tn OR ‘AEROPAX’:tn OR ‘ALMAGEL  NEO’:tn OR ‘ALVERINE -SIMETICON’:tn OR ‘ALVERINE -SIMETICONE’:tn OR ‘CARBOSYLANE’:tn OR  ‘DENTINOX’:tn OR ‘ELUGAN’:tn OR ‘ESPUMISAN  PERLEN’:tn OR ‘INFACOLIC’:tn OR ‘KOLATICON’:tn OR  ‘LEFAX EXTRA’:tn OR ‘MYLICON’:tn OR ‘POLYSILANE’:tn OR ‘SIMECRIN’:tn OR ‘SIMEGUT’:tn OR  ‘SIMETHICONE’:tn OR ‘SIMETICONA’:tn OR ‘SIMETICONE’:tn OR ‘AERO RED’:tn OR ‘AERO -OM’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 238/368   ‘AEROPAX’:tn OR ‘AIR -X’:tn OR ‘ALUMINIUM HYDROXIDE/MAGNESIUM HYDROXIDE/SIMETHICONE’:tn  OR ‘MAALOX’:tn OR ‘TA’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   220.  Cilastatin   ‘CILASTATIN’ OR ‘CILASTATÍN’ OR ‘CILASTATINĂ’ OR ‘CILASTATINA’ OR ‘CYLASTATYNA’ OR   ‘CILASTATINE’ OR ‘CILASTATIN’ OR ‘CILASTATINUM’ OR ‘CILASTATINAS’ OR ‘CILASTATINUM’ OR  ‘CILASTATINA’ OR ‘CILASTATÍN’ OR ‘CILASZTATIN’ OR ‘CILASTATINA’ OR ‘CILASTATIN’ OR  ‘CILASTATINE’ OR ‘SILASTATIINI’ OR ‘TSILASTATIIN’ OR ‘CILASTATINA’ OR ‘CILASTATIN’ OR  ‘CILASTATINUM’ OR ‘IMIPENEM’:tn OR ‘5R,6S) -3-[2-(AMINOMETHYLIDENEAMINO)ETHYLSULFANYL] -6- (1-HYDROXYETHYL) -7-OXO-1-AZABICYCLO[3.2.0]HEPT -2-ENE-2-CARBOXYLIC ACID’:tn OR  ‘IMIPEMIDE’:tn OR ‘IMIPENEM’:tn OR ‘IMIPENÉM’:tn OR ‘IMIPENEM’:tn OR ‘IMIPENEM’:tn OR  ‘IMIPENEMA’:tn OR ‘IMIPENĒMA’:tn OR ‘IMIPENEMO’:tn OR ‘IMIPENEMUM’:tn OR ‘IMIPENEM’:tn OR  ‘IMIPÉNEM’:tn OR ‘IMIPENEM’:tn OR ‘IMIPENEM’:tn OR ‘IMIPENEMUM’:tn OR ‘CAMPENAM’:tn OR  ‘CIATANEM’:tn OR ‘CILANEM’:tn OR ‘CONET’:tn OR ‘HISLAPEN’:tn OR ‘IMECITIM’:tn OR ‘IMECITIN’:tn  OR ‘IMICIL’:tn OR ‘IMIPENEM/CILASTATIN’:tn OR ‘IMIPENEM/CILASTATINA’:tn OR  ‘IMIPENEM/CILASTIN’:tn OR ‘IMPECIN’:tn OR ‘NIMEDINE’:tn OR ‘PRIMAGAL’:tn OR ‘PRIMAXIN’:tn OR  ‘PRIMAXIN IV’:tn OR ‘TENACID’:tn OR ‘TIENAM’:tn OR ‘XANTUM’:tn OR ‘XEDINE’:tn OR ‘ZIENAM’:tn OR  ‘CHIECOOL’:tn OR ‘CILANEM’:tn OR ‘IMIPENEM/CILASTATIN’:tn OR ‘IMIPENEM/CILASTATINE’:tn OR  ‘INDAST’:tn OR ‘PRIMAXIN’:tn OR ‘PRIMAXIN IV’:tn OR ‘TIENAM’:tn OR ‘TIEPENEM’:tn OR ‘ZIENAM’:tn  AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR  misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp  OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 239/368   contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   221.  Indometacin   ‘INDOMETACIN’ OR ‘INDOMETACINE’ OR ‘INDOMETHACIN’ OR ‘INDOMETACIN’ OR ‘INDOMETACINA’ OR  ‘INDOMETACĪNS’ OR ‘INDOMETACINUM’ OR ‘INDOMÉTACINE’ OR ‘INDOMETACINE’ OR  ‘INDOMETACINA’ OR ‘INDOMETACIN’ OR ‘ALIVIOSIN’:tn OR ‘ARTRINOVO’:tn OR ‘AUTRITIS’:tn OR  ‘CHRONO -INDOCID’:tn OR ‘CONFORTID’:tn OR ‘DIFMETRE’:tn OR ‘DOLCIDIUM’:tn OR ‘DOLCISPRAY’:tn  OR ‘ELMETACIN’:tn OR ‘FLOGOTER’:tn OR ‘FORTATHRIN’:tn OR ‘INACID’:tn OR ‘INDO EDO’:tn OR  ‘INDO TOP -’:tn OR ‘INDO -CT’:tn OR ‘INDO -PAED’:tn OR ‘INDOBENE’:tn OR ‘INDOCID’:tn OR  ‘INDOCOLLIRIO’:tn OR ‘INDOCOLLYRE’:tn OR ‘INDOLAR SR’:tn OR ‘INDOM’:tn OR ‘INDOMET’:tn OR  ‘INDOMET -’:tn OR ‘INDOMETACIN’:tn OR ‘INDOMETACIN’:tn OR ‘INDOMETACINUM’:tn OR  ‘INDOMETIN’:tn OR ‘INDONILO’:tn OR ‘INDOREM’:tn OR ‘INDOVASIN’:tn OR ‘INDOXEN’:tn OR  ‘LIOMETACEN’:tn OR ‘LUIFLEX’:tn OR ‘METINDOL’:tn OR ‘MOBILAT SCHMERZSPRAY’:tn OR  ‘PARDELPRIN MR’:tn OR ‘REUMADOLOR’:tn OR ‘REUSIN’:tn OR ‘SPORTFLEX’:tn OR ‘ACUFLEX’:tn OR  ‘AFLAMIN’:tn OR ‘AMUNO’:tn OR ‘ANTALGIN (INDOMETACIN)’:tn OR ‘APO INDOMETHACIN’:tn OR  ‘ARTHREXIN’:tn OR ‘CATLEP’:tn OR ‘CHRONO -INDOCID’:tn OR ‘CONFORTID’:tn OR ‘DIALON’:tn OR  ‘DIFMETRE’:tn OR ‘ENDOL’:tn OR ‘HAPSTAR -ID’:tn OR ‘IDOMETHINE’:tn OR ‘INACID’:tn OR  ‘INDACIN’:tn OR ‘INDOCAP’:tn OR ‘INDOCID’:tn OR ‘INDOCIN’:tn OR ‘INDOCOLLYRE’:tn OR  ‘INDOCONTIN’:tn OR ‘INDOMEE’:tn OR ‘INDOMELOL’:tn OR ‘INDOMETACIN’:tn OR ‘INDOMETACINE’:tn  OR ‘INDOMETIN’:tn OR ‘INDONOL’:tn OR ‘INDOPHTAL’:tn OR ‘INFLAM’:tn OR ‘INMECIN’:tn OR  ‘INNAMIT’:tn OR ‘INSIDE PAP’:tn OR ‘INTEBAN’:tn OR ‘INTEBAN SP’:tn OR ‘INTENACIN’:tn OR  ‘INTENURSE PAP’:tn OR ‘METACEN’:tn OR ‘METINDOL’:tn OR ‘MIKAMETAN’:tn OR ‘NOVO -METHACIN’:tn  OR ‘PROARISIN’:tn OR ‘REUMACID’:tn OR ‘REUSIN’:tn OR ‘RHEUMACIN’:tn OR ‘SERASTAR’:tn OR  ‘ZEMPACK’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   222.  Piracetam   ‘PIRACETAM’ OR ‘PIRACETĀMS’ OR ‘PIRACETAMAS’ OR ‘PIRACETAMUM’ OR ‘PIRACETAM’ OR  ‘PIRACETÁM’ OR ‘PIRACÉTAM’ OR ‘PIRATSETAAMI’ OR ‘PIRACETAMUM’ OR ‘ACETAR’:tn OR  ‘ANACERVIX’:tn OR ‘BIOTROPIL’:tn OR ‘CEBROTONIN’:tn OR ‘CEREBRYL’:tn OR ‘CICLOFALINA’:tn OR  ‘COGNIT’:tn OR ‘CUXABRAIN’:tn OR ‘DIEMIL’:tn OR ‘GABACET’:tn OR ‘GERATAM’:tn OR ‘LUCETAM’:tn     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 240/368   OR ‘MEMORIL’:tn OR ‘MEMOTAL’:tn OR ‘MEMOTROPIL’:tn OR ‘NOFORIT’:tn OR ‘NOOSTAN’:tn OR  ‘NOOTROP’:tn OR ‘NOOTROPIL’:tn OR ‘NOOTROPYL’:tn OR ‘NOOTΡΟΠ’:tn OR ‘OIKAMID’:tn OR  ‘PHEZAM’:tn OR ‘PIRABENE’:tn OR ‘PIRACEBRAL’:tn OR ‘PIRACETAM’:tn OR ‘PIRACETAM -EGIS EGIS’:tn  OR ‘PIRACETAMUM’:tn OR ‘PSYGERIAT’:tn OR ‘RECODIUM’:tn OR ‘CICLOFALINA’:tn OR ‘CINTILAN’:tn  OR ‘GABACET’:tn OR ‘ISKETAM’:tn OR ‘KNOWFUL’:tn OR ‘LUCETAM’:tn OR ‘METADIEMIL’:tn OR  ‘MYOCALM’:tn OR ‘NOOTRON’:tn OR ‘NOOTROPIL’:tn OR ‘NOOTROPYL’:tn OR ‘OIKAMID’:tn OR  ‘PHEZAM’:tn OR ‘PIRACETAM’:tn OR ‘SYNTAM’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   223.  Theophylline   ‘THEOPHYLLINE’ OR ‘1,3DIMETHYL7HPURINE2,6 -DIONE’ OR ‘TEOFYLLIINI’ OR ‘THEOPHYLLINUM’ OR  ‘TEOFILINA’ OR ‘1,3 -DIMETHYLXANTHINE’ OR ‘TEOFYLLIN’ OR ‘TEOFILIN’ OR ‘THEOPHYLLINUM’ OR  ‘TEOFYLÍN’ OR ‘TEOFILINĂ’ OR ‘TEOFILINA’ OR ‘TEOFILINA’ OR ‘TEOFILINY’ OR ‘TEOFYLLIN’ OR  ‘THEOFYLLINE’ OR ‘THEOPHYLLINE’ OR ‘TEOFILĪNS’ OR ‘TEOFILINAS’ OR ‘THEOPHYLLINUM’ OR  ‘TEOFILLIN’ OR ‘TEOFILLIN’ OR ‘THEOFILLÉIN’ OR ‘THÉOPHYLLINE’ OR ‘TEOFYLLIINI’ OR ‘TEOFÜLLIIN’  OR ‘TEOFILINA’ OR ‘THEOPHYLLIN’ OR ‘THEOPHYLLIN’ OR ‘THEOFYLIN’ OR ‘THEOPHYLLINUM’ OR  ‘AMINOFILINA’:tn OR ‘AMINOMAL’:tn OR ‘AMINOPHYLLIN’:tn OR ‘AMINOPHYLLINE’:tn OR ‘BALADEX’:tn  OR ‘CONTIPHYLLIN’:tn OR ‘DIAPHYLLIN’:tn OR ‘DIFFUMAL’:tn OR ‘DILATRANE’:tn OR ‘DO -DO’:tn OR  ‘EGIFILIN’:tn OR ‘ELIXIFILIN’:tn OR ‘EUFILINA’:tn OR ‘EUPHYLLIN’:tn OR ‘EUPHYLLINE’:tn OR  ‘EUPHYLONG’:tn OR ‘OXANTIL’:tn OR ‘PULMO -TIMELETS’:tn OR ‘RESPICUR’:tn OR ‘RETAFYLLIN’:tn OR  ‘SLO-PHYLLIN’:tn OR ‘SOLOSIN’:tn OR ‘THEOPHYLLINI’:tn OR ‘SYNTOPHYLLIN’:tn OR ‘TEDRALAN’:tn  OR ‘TEOLIN’:tn OR ‘TEOTARD’:tn OR ‘TEOVENT’:tn OR ‘TEROMOL’:tn OR ‘THEO -DUR’:tn OR  ‘THEOFOL’:tn OR ‘THEOLAIR’:tn OR ‘THEOPHTARD’:tn OR ‘THEOPHYLLINUM’:tn OR ‘THEOPLUS’:tn OR  ‘THEOSPIREX’:tn OR ‘THEOSTAT LP’:tn OR ‘THEOVENT’:tn OR ‘UNICONTIN’:tn OR ‘UNIPHYLLIN’:tn OR  ‘UNIXAN’:tn OR ‘XANTHIUM’:tn OR ‘ZEPHOLIN’:tn OR ‘AEROBIN’:tn OR ‘AFONILUM’:tn OR  ‘AMINOMAL’:tn OR ‘APNECUT’:tn OR ‘THEO -LA’:tn OR ‘ARDEPHYLLIN’:tn OR ‘BRONCHOFYLINE’:tn OR  ‘BRONCHORETARD’:tn OR ‘CYLMIN’:tn OR ‘DIAPHYLLIN’:tn OR ‘DILATRANE’:tn OR ‘DUROFILIN’:tn OR  ‘ELIXIFILIN’:tn OR ‘ELIXOPHYLLIN’:tn OR ‘ETHEOPHYL’:tn OR ‘EUPHYLLIN’:tn OR ‘EUPHYLLINE’:tn OR  ‘EUPHYLONG’:tn OR ‘FRANOL’:tn OR ‘FRIVENT’:tn OR ‘NUELIN’:tn OR ‘PIRASMIN’:tn OR ‘QUIBRON - T’:tn OR ‘SEKIROID’:tn OR ‘SLO -BID’:tn OR ‘SLO -PHYLLIN’:tn OR ‘TELBANS’:tn OR ‘TEOBAG’:tn OR  ‘TEOFURMATE’:tn OR ‘TEOFYLLAMIN’:tn OR ‘TEOLONG’:tn OR ‘TEOTARD’:tn OR ‘TERDAN’:tn OR  ‘THEO’:tn OR ‘THEO -DUR’:tn OR ‘THEO -SLOW’:tn OR ‘THEOCLEAR’:tn OR ‘THEODRIP’:tn OR  ‘THEODUR’:tn OR ‘THEOFOL’:tn OR ‘THEOLAIR’:tn OR ‘THEOLIN’:tn OR ‘THEOLONG’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 241/368   ‘THEOPEC’:tn OR ‘THEOPHYLLIN’:tn OR ‘THEOPLUS’:tn OR ‘THEOTARD’:tn OR ‘THEOTRIM’:tn OR ‘UNI - DUR’:tn OR ‘UNICON’:tn OR ‘UNICONTIN’:tn OR ‘UNIFYL’:tn OR ‘UNIPHYL’:tn OR ‘UNIPHYLLIN’:tn OR  ‘VENTAX’:tn OR ‘XANTHIUM’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   224.  Sotalol   ‘SOTALOL’ OR ‘SOTALOLUM’ OR ‘SOTALOL’ OR ‘SOTALOL’ OR ‘BETA -CARDONE’ OR ‘BIOSOTAL’ OR  ‘CORSOTALOL’ OR ‘DAROB’ OR ‘FAVOREX’ OR ‘JUTALEX’ OR ‘RYTMOBETA’ OR ‘SOTACOR’ OR  ‘SOTAGAMMA’ OR ‘SOTAHEXAL’ OR ‘SOTALEX’ OR ‘SOTALOL’ OR ‘SOTALOLO’ OR ‘SOTAPOR’ OR  ‘SOTASTAD’ OR ‘SOTAX’ OR ‘BETAPACE’:tn OR ‘CARDOL’:tn OR ‘CORSOTALOL’:tn OR ‘DAROB’:tn OR  ‘NOVO -SOTALOL’:tn OR ‘SOLAVERT’:tn OR ‘SOTABETA’:tn OR ‘SOTACOR’:tn OR ‘SOTAHEXAL’:tn OR  ‘SOTALEX’:tn OR ‘SOTALOL’:tn OR ‘SOTAPER’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   225.  Felodipine   ‘FELODIPINE’ OR ‘FELODIPINA’ OR ‘FELODIPIN’ OR ‘FELODIPIN’ OR ‘FELODIPÍN’ OR ‘FELODIPINĂ’ OR  ‘FELODIPINA’ OR ‘FELODYPINA’ OR ‘FELODIPINE’ OR ‘FELODIPINE’ OR ‘FELODIPĪNS’ OR ‘FELODIPINAS’     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 242/368   OR ‘FELODIPINUM’ OR ‘FELODIPIN’ OR ‘FELODIPIN’ OR ‘FEILÓIDIPÉIN’ OR ‘FÉLODIPINE’ OR  ‘FELODIPIINI’ OR ‘FELODIPIIN’ OR ‘FELODIPINO’ OR ‘FELODIPIN’ OR ‘FELODIPIN’ OR ‘FELODIPIN’ OR  ‘AURONAL’:tn OR ‘CABREN’:tn OR ‘CARDIOPLEN’:tn OR ‘ENFELO’:tn OR ‘FELDÍL’:tn OR ‘FELOCOR’:tn  OR ‘FELODIN’:tn OR ‘FELODIPIN’:tn OR ‘FELODIPINE’:tn OR ‘FELODISTAD’:tn OR ‘FELOGAMMA’:tn OR  ‘FELOGEN XL’:tn OR ‘FELOTENS XL’:tn OR ‘FOLPIK XL’:tn OR ‘NEOFEL XL’:tn OR ‘PARMID XL’:tn OR  ‘PINEFELD XL’:tn OR ‘PRESID’:tn OR ‘RENEDIL’:tn OR ‘SISTAR’:tn OR ‘VASCALPHA’:tn OR  ‘FELOCOR’:tn OR ‘FELODIL XR’:tn OR ‘FELODIN’:tn OR ‘FELODIP’:tn OR ‘FELODIPIN’:tn OR  ‘FELODIPINE’:tn OR ‘FELODUR ER’:tn OR ‘FENDEX ER’:tn OR ‘MODIP’:tn OR ‘MUNOBAL’:tn OR  ‘PENEDIL’:tn OR ‘PLENDIL’:tn OR ‘PREVEX’:tn OR ‘RENEDIL’:tn OR ‘SPLENDIL’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   226.  Norfloxacin   ‘NORFLOXACIN’ OR ‘1 -ETHYL -6-FLUORO -4-OXO-7-PIPERAZIN -1-YL-QUINOLINE -3-CARBOXYLIC ACID’  OR ‘NORFLOXACIN’ OR ‘NORFLOKSACIN’ OR ‘NORFLOXACINUM’ OR ‘NORFLOXACÍN’ OR  ‘NORFLOXACINĂ’ OR ‘NORFLOXACINA’ OR ‘NORFLOKSACYNA’ OR ‘NORFLOXACINE’ OR ‘NORFLOXACIN’  OR ‘NORFLOKSACĪNS’ OR ‘NORFLOKSACINAS’ OR ‘NORFLOXACINUM’ OR ‘NORFLOXACINA’ OR  ‘NORFLOXACIN’ OR ‘NORFLOXACIN’ OR ‘NORFLOKSACIN’ OR ‘NORFLOCSAICSÉIN’ OR ‘NORFLOXACINE’  OR ‘NORFLOKSASIINI’ OR ‘NORFLOKSATSIIN’ OR ‘NORFLOXACINO’ OR ‘NORFLOXACIN’ OR  ‘NORFLOXACIN’ OR ‘NORFLOXACIN’ OR ‘NORFLOXACINUM’ OR ‘CHIBROXIN’:tn OR ‘CHIBROXINE’:tn  OR ‘CHIBROXOL’:tn OR ‘CONSTILAX’:tn OR ‘FLUSEMINAL’:tn OR ‘GRENIS’:tn OR ‘GYRABLOCK’:tn OR  ‘NAFLOX’:tn OR ‘NOFLOX’:tn OR ‘NOLICIN’:tn OR ‘NOR QUIN’:tn OR ‘NORBACTIN’:tn OR ‘NORFLO’:tn  OR ‘NORFLOSAL’:tn OR ‘NORFLOX’:tn OR ‘NORFLOXA’:tn OR ‘NORFLOXACIN’:tn OR  ‘NORFLOXACINA’:tn OR ‘NORFLOXACINE’:tn OR ‘NOROCIN’:tn OR ‘NOROXIN’:tn OR ‘NOROXINE’:tn OR  ‘NORSEPT’:tn OR ‘PISTOFIL’:tn OR ‘THEANORF’:tn OR ‘TRIZOLIN’:tn OR ‘TRIZOLIN URO’:tn OR  ‘UROFLOX’:tn OR ‘UROSPES -N’:tn OR ‘VETAMOL’:tn OR ‘XASMUN’:tn OR ‘ZOROXIN’:tn OR  ‘NORFLOX’:tn OR ‘BACCIDAL’:tn OR ‘BARAZAN’:tn OR ‘CHIBROXIN’:tn OR ‘CHIBROXINE’:tn OR  ‘FLOXACIN’:tn OR ‘FULGRAM’:tn OR ‘JANACIN’:tn OR ‘NOFLO’:tn OR ‘NOFLOXAN’:tn OR ‘NOLICIN’:tn  OR ‘NORBACTIN’:tn OR ‘NORFLOCIN’:tn OR ‘NORFLOX’:tn OR ‘NORFLOXACIN’:tn OR  ‘NORFLOXACINA’:tn OR ‘NORFLOXACINE’:tn OR ‘NORFLOXACINO’:tn OR ‘NORFLOXIN’:tn OR  ‘NORMAX’:tn OR ‘NOROXIN’:tn OR ‘NOROXINE’:tn OR ‘NORSOL’:tn OR ‘RENOXACIN’:tn OR ‘ROXIN’:tn  OR ‘SHINUN’:tn OR ‘UROBACID’:tn OR ‘UROCTAL’:tn OR ‘UROFLOX’:tn OR ‘UTIN -400’:tn OR  ‘XAFLOR’:tn OR ‘ZOROXIN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 243/368   overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   227.  Atropine   ‘ATROPINE’ OR ‘(±) -HYOSCYAMINE’ OR ‘[(1S,5R) -8-METHYL -8-AZABICYCLO[3.2.1]OCT -3-YL] 3- HYDROXY -2-PHENYL -PROPANOATE’ OR ‘ATROPINA’:tn OR ‘ATROPINUM’:tn OR ‘ATROPINAS’:tn OR  ‘ATROPINA’:tn OR ‘ATROPIN’:tn OR ‘ATROPINA’:tn OR ‘ATORVASTATINA’:tn OR ‘ATOX II’:tn OR  ‘ATROPEN’:tn OR ‘ATROPHINE SULPHATE’:tn OR ‘ATROPIN’:tn OR ‘ATROPINA’:tn OR ‘ATROPINE’:tn OR  ‘ATROPINE’:tn OR ‘ATROPINE SULFATE’:tn OR ‘ATROPINESULFAAT’:tn OR ‘ATROPINESULFAAT ’:tn OR  ‘ATROPINSULFAT’:tn OR ‘ATROPOCIL’:tn OR ‘AUTOJECT (COMBOPEN) NERVE AGENT ANTIDOTE’:tn OR  ‘BELLAPAN’:tn OR ‘BELLERGOT’:tn OR ‘BILA -GIT’:tn OR ‘CO -PHENOTROPE’:tn OR ‘COLIRCUSI  ATROPINA’:tn OR ‘DIARSED’:tn OR ‘DYMOTIL’:tn OR ‘DYSURGAL’:tn OR ‘EPICUTANTEST’:tn OR  ‘HOMATROPINE’:tn OR ‘LOMOTIL’:tn OR ‘NOPAR’:tn OR ‘OMATROPINA LUX’:tn OR ‘REASEC’:tn OR  ‘SULFAT DE ATROPINĂ’:tn OR ‘TROLAB’:tn OR ‘TROPARIN’:tn OR ‘VISTATROPINE’:tn OR ‘ATROPIN’:tn  OR ‘ATROPINA’:tn OR ‘ATROPINE’:tn OR ‘ATROPT’:tn OR ‘ATROSPAN’:tn OR ‘BELLAFIT N’:tn OR  ‘DHAMOTIL’:tn OR ‘GENATROPINE’:tn OR ‘HOMATROCIL’:tn OR ‘ISOPTO’:tn OR ‘LOFENOXAL’:tn OR  ‘REASEC’:tn OR ‘TROPARIN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 244/368   228.  Bupivacaine   ‘BUPIVACAINE’ OR ‘BUPIVACAINUM’ OR ‘BUPIVACAÍNA’ OR ‘BICAIN’:tn OR ‘BUCAIN’:tn OR ‘BUPI’:tn  OR ‘BUPICAIN’:tn OR ‘BUPINOSTRUM’:tn OR ‘BUPISEN’:tn OR ‘BUPISOLVER’:tn OR ‘BUPIVACAIN’:tn  OR ‘BUPIVACAINA’:tn OR ‘BUPIVACAINE’:tn OR ‘BUPIXAMOL’:tn OR ‘CHIROCAINE’:tn OR  ‘CHIROCANE’:tn OR ‘DOLANEST’:tn OR ‘HYPERBARIC BUPIVACAINE HYDROCHLORIDE’:tn OR  ‘INIBSACAIN HIPERBARICA’:tn OR ‘LEVOBUPIVACAIN NORMON’:tn OR ‘SANERGY SPINAL’:tn OR  ‘BUCAIN’:tn OR ‘BUPICAINE’:tn OR ‘BUPIFORAN’:tn OR ‘CARBOSTESIN’:tn OR ‘CHIROCAINE’:tn OR  ‘MACAINE’:tn OR ‘MARCAIN’:tn OR ‘MARCAINA’:tn OR ‘MARCAINE’:tn OR ‘MARCAINE SPINAL’:tn OR  ‘POPSCAINE’:tn OR ‘SENSORCAINE’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   229.  Carboplatin   ‘CARBOPLATIN’ OR ‘CARBOPLATINE’ OR ‘KARBOPLATIN’ OR ‘KARBOPLATINA’ OR ‘KARBOPLATINA’ OR  ‘CARBOPLATINA’ OR ‘CARBOPLATINA’ OR ‘KARBOPLATYNA’ OR ‘KARBOPLATIN’ OR ‘CARBOPLATINE’ OR  ‘CARBOPLATINE’ OR ‘KARBOPLATĪNA’ OR ‘CARBOPLATINUM’ OR ‘CARBOPLATIN’ OR ‘CARBOPLATINO’  OR ‘KARBÓPLATÍNI’ OR ‘KARBOPLATIN’ OR ‘CARBOPLATINE’ OR ‘KARBOPLATIINIA’ OR  ‘KARBOPLATIINI’ OR ‘CARBOPLATINO’ OR ‘CARBOPLATIN’ OR ‘CARBOPLATINUM’ OR ‘KARBOPLATINUM’  OR ‘BOPACATIN’ OR ‘CARBO -CELL’:tn OR ‘CARBOMEDAC’ OR ‘CARBOPLAN’:tn OR ‘CARBOPLAT’:tn OR  ‘CARBOSIN’:tn OR ‘CARBOX’:tn OR ‘CYCLOPLATIN’:tn OR ‘EUROCARBOPLATIN’:tn OR ‘MEGAPLATIN’:tn  OR ‘NEOCARBO’:tn OR ‘NOVOPLATINUM’:tn OR ‘ONKOPLATIN’:tn OR ‘PARAPLATIN’:tn OR ‘ZYTAX’:tn  OR ‘BLASTOCARB’:tn OR ‘CARBOPLAN’:tn OR ‘CARBOPLAT’:tn OR ‘CARBOPLATIN’:tn OR  ‘CARBOPLATINE’:tn OR ‘CARBOPLATINO’:tn OR ‘CARBOPLATINUM’:tn OR ‘CARBOSIN’:tn OR  ‘CYCLOPLATIN’:tn OR ‘FAULDCARBO’:tn OR ‘PARAPLATIN’:tn OR ‘PARAPLATINE’:tn OR ‘RIBOCARBO’:tn  AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR  misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp  OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 245/368   pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   230.  Doxorubicin   ‘DOXORUBICIN’ OR ‘ADRIAMYCIN’ OR ‘DOXORRUBICINA’ OR ‘DOXORUBICINUM’ OR ‘DOXORUBICINE’  OR ‘DOXORUBICINA’ OR ‘ADRIACEPT’:tn OR ‘ADRIAMYCIN’:tn OR ‘ADRIBLASTIN’:tn OR  ‘ADRIBLASTINA’:tn OR ‘ADRIBLASTINE’:tn OR ‘ADRIMEDAC’:tn OR ‘CAELYX’:tn OR ‘DEBDOX’:tn OR  ‘DHARUXO’:tn OR ‘DOKSORUBICIN’:tn OR ‘DOXIPROL’:tn OR ‘DOXIRICIN’:tn OR ‘DOXO -CELL’:tn OR  ‘DOXORUBICIN’:tn OR ‘DOXORUBICIN HCL’:tn OR ‘DOXORUBICINUM’:tn OR ‘DOXORUBIN’:tn OR  ‘DOXOTIL’:tn OR ‘FARMIBLASTINA’:tn OR ‘MYOCET’:tn OR ‘RIBODOXO’:tn OR ‘RUBIDOX’:tn OR  ‘SINDROXOCIN’:tn OR ‘XORUCIN’:tn OR ‘ADRIACIN’:tn OR ‘ADRIAMYCIN’:tn OR ‘ADRIBLASTIN’:tn OR  ‘ADRIBLASTINA’:tn OR ‘ADRIBLASTINE’:tn OR ‘ADRIM’:tn OR ‘ADRIMEDAC’:tn OR ‘CAELYX’:tn OR ‘DBL  DOXORUBICIN HYDROCHLORIDE’:tn OR ‘DOXIL’:tn OR ‘DOXOLEM’:tn OR ‘DOXOPEG’:tn OR  ‘DOXORUBICIN’:tn OR ‘DOXORUBICINA’:tn OR ‘DOXORUBICINE’:tn OR ‘DOXORUBIN’:tn OR  ‘FAULDOXO’:tn OR ‘LIPODOX’:tn OR ‘MYOCET’:tn OR ‘RUBIDOX’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp  OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   231.  Famotidine   ‘FAMOTIDINE’ OR ‘FAMOTIDÍN’ OR ‘FAMOTIDINA’ OR ‘FAMOTYDYNA’ OR ‘FAMOTIDINUM’ OR  ‘FAMOTIDIN’ OR ‘FAMOTIDINE’ OR ‘FAMOTIDINE’ OR ‘FAMOTIDINA’ OR ‘FAMOTIDIN’ OR ‘FAMOTIDIN’  OR ‘EVIANTRINA’:tn OR ‘FADUL’:tn OR ‘FAMIDYNA’:tn OR ‘FAMODIL’:tn OR ‘FAMODIN’:tn OR  ‘FAMOGAST’:tn OR ‘FAMOPSIN’:tn OR ‘FAMOSAN’:tn OR ‘FAMOSIN’:tn OR ‘FAMOTIDIN’:tn OR  ‘FAMOTIDINE’:tn OR ‘FAMULTRAN’:tn OR ‘IMPOSERGON’:tn OR ‘MOTIDIN’:tn OR ‘NULCERIN’:tn OR  ‘NULCEX’:tn OR ‘PEPCID’:tn OR ‘PEPCIDAC’:tn OR ‘PEPDUL’:tn OR ‘PEPTAN’:tn OR ‘QUAMATEL’:tn OR  ‘SODEXX’:tn OR ‘ULCEDINE’:tn OR ‘ULCUSAN’:tn OR ‘ULFAMID’:tn OR ‘AUSFAM’:tn OR ‘BLOSTARM’:tn  OR ‘CLIMAGEN’:tn OR ‘FACID’:tn OR ‘FADINE’:tn OR ‘FAMO’:tn OR ‘FAMOCID’:tn OR ‘FAMODIN’:tn OR  ‘FAMODINE’:tn OR ‘FAMOGAST’:tn OR ‘FAMOSAN’:tn OR ‘FAMOSTAGINE’:tn OR ‘FAMOTIDIN’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 246/368   ‘FAMOTIDINA’:tn OR ‘FAMOTIDINE’:tn OR ‘GAMOFA’:tn OR ‘GASDOCK’:tn OR ‘GASMET’:tn OR  ‘GASPORT’:tn OR ‘GASRICK’:tn OR ‘GASTER’:tn OR ‘GASTRO’:tn OR ‘GASUISAN’:tn OR ‘MOTIDINE’:tn  OR ‘NULCERAN’:tn OR ‘PEPCID’:tn OR ‘PEPCIDAC’:tn OR ‘PEPCIDIN’:tn OR ‘PEPCIDINE’:tn OR  ‘PEPDINE’:tn OR ‘QUAMATEL’:tn OR ‘STOMARCON’:tn OR ‘TAMIN’:tn OR ‘TIOSTAR’:tn OR ‘ULFAMID’:tn  AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR  misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp  OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   232.  Methotrexate   ‘METHOTREXATE’ OR ‘METOTREXAT’ OR ‘METOTREKSAT’ OR ‘METOTREXÁT’ OR ‘METOTREXAT’ OR  ‘METOTREXATO’ OR ‘METOTREKSAT’ OR ‘METOTREKSAT’ OR ‘METHOTREXAAT’ OR ‘METOTREKSĀTA’ OR  ‘METOTREKSATO’ OR ‘METHOTREXATUM’ OR ‘METOTREXATO’ OR ‘METOTRESSATO’ OR ‘METÓTREXATI’  OR ‘METOTREXÁTOT’ OR ‘METOTREKSAT’ OR ‘MÉTHOTREXATE’ OR ‘METOTREKSAATTI’ OR  ‘METOTREKSAAT’ OR ‘METOTREXATO’ OR ‘METHOTREXATE’ OR ‘METHOTREXAT’ OR ‘METHOTREXAT’  OR ‘METHOTREXATE’ OR ‘METHOTREXATUM’ OR ‘МЕТОТРЕКСАТ’ OR ‘BERTANEL’:tn OR ‘EBETREX’:tn  OR ‘EBETREXAT’:tn OR ‘EMTHEXATE’:tn OR ‘FAULDEXATO’:tn OR ‘IMETH’:tn OR ‘LANTAREL’:tn OR  ‘LEDERTREXATE’:tn OR ‘LEDERTREXATO’:tn OR ‘MAXTREX’:tn OR ‘METEX’:tn OR ‘METHOBION’:tn OR  ‘METHOTRAXATE STRIDES’:tn OR ‘METHOTREXAMED’:tn OR ‘METHOTREXATE’:tn OR ‘METHOTREXATE  SODIUM’:tn OR ‘METOJECT’:tn OR ‘METOPEN’:tn OR ‘METOTAB’:tn OR ‘METOTREXAT’:tn OR ‘MTX’:tn  OR ‘NEOTREXAT’:tn OR ‘NOVATREX’:tn OR ‘QUINUX’:tn OR ‘REUMAFLEX’:tn OR ‘TREXAN’:tn OR  ‘TREXODEM’:tn OR ‘ABITREXATE’:tn OR ‘METHOTREXATE’:tn OR ‘ATREXEL’:tn OR ‘DBL  METHOTREXATE’:tn OR ‘EBETREXAT’:tn OR ‘EMTHEXATE’:tn OR ‘ERVEMIN’:tn OR ‘FARMITREXAT’:tn  OR ‘IMETH’:tn OR ‘LANTAREL’:tn OR ‘LEDERTREXATE’:tn OR ‘LUMEXON’:tn OR ‘MAXTREX’:tn OR  ‘METEX’:tn OR ‘METHOBLASTIN’:tn OR ‘METHOTREXAAT’:tn OR ‘METHOTREXAT’:tn OR  ‘METHOTREXATE’:tn OR ‘METOJECT’:tn OR ‘METOLATE’:tn OR ‘METOTREXATO’:tn OR ‘METREXATO’:tn  OR ‘MTX’:tn OR ‘NOVATREX’:tn OR ‘REUTREXATO’:tn OR ‘RHEUMATREX’:tn OR ‘TREXALL’:tn OR  ‘TREXAMETTE’:tn OR ‘TREXAN’:tn OR ‘TRIXILEM’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 247/368   'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   233.  Quinapril   ‘QUINAPRIL’ OR ‘QUINAPRIL’ OR ‘CHINAPRIL’ OR ‘CHINAPRYL’ OR ‘KVINAPRILA’ OR ‘QUINAPRILUM’ OR  ‘KVINAPRIL’ OR ‘KVINAPRILA’ OR ‘QUINAPRILUM’ OR ‘ACCUPRIL’:tn OR ‘ACCUPRIN’:tn OR  ‘ACCUPRO’:tn OR ‘ACCUPRON’:tn OR ‘ACEQUIN’:tn OR ‘ACUITEL’:tn OR ‘ACUPREL’:tn OR ‘ACUPRIL’:tn  OR ‘ACURENAL’:tn OR ‘APRILGEN’:tn OR ‘CORABACE’:tn OR ‘ECTREN’:tn OR ‘KINASTAD’:tn OR  ‘KINOPRILAM’:tn OR ‘KIPRISIL’:tn OR ‘KIPRISTAD’:tn OR ‘KOREC’:tn OR ‘LIDALTRIN’:tn OR  ‘PULSAREN’:tn OR ‘QUINAPERIL EG’:tn OR ‘QUINAPRIL’:tn OR ‘QUINAZIL’:tn OR ‘QUINPRES’:tn OR  ‘ACCUPRIL’:tn OR ‘ACCUPRIN’:tn OR ‘ACCUPRO’:tn OR ‘ACQUIN’:tn OR ‘ACUITEL’:tn OR ‘ACUPREL’:tn  OR ‘ACUPRIL’:tn OR ‘AQUINAFIL’:tn OR ‘CONAN’:tn OR ‘QUINAPRIL’:tn OR ‘QUINASPEN’:tn OR  ‘QUIRIL’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   234.  Ropivacaine Hydrochloride   ‘ROPIVACAINE HYDROCHLORIDE’ OR ‘ROPIVAKAINHYDROKLORID’ OR ‘CLORHIDRAT DE ROPIVACAINĂ’  OR ‘CLORIDRATO DE ROPIVACAÍNA’ OR ‘CHLOROWODOREK ROPIWAKAINY’ OR ‘ROPIVAKAĪNA  HIDROHLORĪDS’ OR ‘ROPIVAKAINO HIDROCHLORIDAS’ OR ‘ROPIVACAINI HYDROCHLORIDUM’ OR  ‘ROPIVAKAIN -HIDROKLORID’ OR ‘ROPIVAKAIN -HIDROKLORID’ OR ‘ROPIVAKAINKLORID’ OR  ‘HIDREACLÓIRÍD ROPIVAICÉINE’ OR ‘CHLORHYDRATE DE ROPIVACAÏNE’ OR  ‘ROPIVAKAIINIHYDROKLORIDI’ OR ‘ROPIVAKAIINVESINIKKLORIID’ OR ‘HIDROCLORURO DE  ROPIVACAÍNA’ OR ‘ROPIVACAINHYDROCHLORID’ OR ‘ROPIVACAINHYDROCHLORID’ OR ‘ROBICAINE’:tn  OR ‘ROCADRIN’:tn OR ‘ROPIMOL’:tn OR ‘ROPINAEST’:tn OR ‘ROPITHEN’:tn OR ‘ROPIVACAIN -HCL’:tn  OR ‘ROPIVACAINA’:tn OR ‘ROPIVACAINE’:tn OR ‘ROPIVACAÍNA’:tn OR ‘ROPIVAKAINIJEV KLORID’:tn  OR ‘VAPICAIN’:tn OR ‘ANAPEINE’:tn OR ‘NAROPIN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 248/368   overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   235.  Benazalkonium   ‘BENZALKONIUM’ OR ‘ALFA -C’ OR ‘AMUCLEAN’ OR ‘BEECHAMS’ OR ‘BEMONALCOOL’ OR  ‘BENZALKONIUM CHLORIDE’ OR ‘BENZALKONIUMCHLORID BRIAL ALLERGEN’:tn OR ‘BRADOSOL’:tn OR  ‘CEDIUM BENZALKONIUM’:tn OR ‘CETANORM’:tn OR ‘CHOLINEX INTENSE’:tn OR ‘CITROSIL’:tn OR  ‘COLDREX PROTI’:tn OR ‘CONOTRANE’:tn OR ‘CONTRACEPT -M’:tn OR ‘CUTASEPT G’:tn OR  ‘DEQUONAL’:tn OR ‘DERMAX’:tn OR ‘DERMOL’:tn OR ‘DETOLPRO’:tn OR ‘DETTOL MED’:tn OR  ‘DETTOLMED’:tn OR ‘DETTOX’:tn OR ‘DI MILL’:tn OR ‘DISIGIEN’:tn OR ‘DISINTYL’:tn OR  ‘DORITHRICIN’:tn OR ‘DRAPOLENE’:tn OR ‘EMULSIDERM EMOLLIENT’:tn OR ‘EPICUTANTEST -TROLAB  D2339’:tn OR ‘ESOALCOLICO’:tn OR ‘GERMOZERO’:tn OR ‘HUMEX FOURNIER’:tn OR ‘IRIDINA  LIGHT’:tn OR ‘L A C R I N O R M’:tn OR ‘LACRIMART COLLIRIO’:tn OR ‘LACRISOL’:tn OR ‘LINDEMIL’:tn  OR ‘LOZIONE VITTORIA’:tn OR ‘MINI OVULE’:tn OR ‘NEO BABY’:tn OR ‘NEO -EMOCICATROL’:tn OR  ‘NUMARK CREAM’:tn OR ‘ODAMIDA’:tn OR ‘OILATUM PLUS’:tn OR ‘PUPILLA LIGHT’:tn OR ‘RAPAKO  COMP’:tn OR ‘S G U A R D I’:tn OR ‘SAVOY FIRST AID CREAM’:tn OR ‘SEPTOLETE’:tn OR ‘SKINMAN  SOFT’:tn OR ‘STILLA DELICATO’:tn OR ‘TAMPON’:tn OR ‘VANTAGE’:tn OR ‘VASELATUM’:tn OR  ‘ZEROLATUM PLUS’:tn OR ‘ZINCOMETIL’:tn OR ‘CLARITONE’:tn OR ‘DEQUONAL’:tn OR ‘GERMITOL’:tn  OR ‘LACRINORM’:tn OR ‘OILATUM PLUS’:tn OR ‘ORONINE’:tn OR ‘SEA MIST’:tn OR ‘ULTRASAN’:tn OR  ‘ZEPHIRAN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 249/368   236.  Flecainide   ‘FLECAINIDE’ OR ‘FLECAINIDUM’ OR ‘FLÉCAÏNIDE’ OR ‘FLECAINIDA’ OR ‘ACETATE DE FLECAÏNIDE’:tn  OR ‘ALMARYTM’:tn OR ‘AMARHYTON’:tn OR ‘APOCARD’:tn OR ‘ARISTOCOR’:tn OR ‘CASTEIKERIN’:tn  OR ‘FLECADURA ‘:tn OR ‘FLECAGAMMA’:tn OR ‘FLECAINE’:tn OR ‘FLECAINID -ISIS’:tn OR  ‘FLECAINIDACETAT AL’:tn OR ‘FLECAINIDE’:tn OR ‘FLECAINIDE LP’:tn OR ‘FLECAINIDEACETAAT’:tn OR  ‘FLECAJUNA’:tn OR ‘FLECARDIA’:tn OR ‘FLECA’:tn OR ‘FLECAÏNIDEACETAAT’:tn OR ‘FLEIDERINA’:tn OR  ‘FLEKAINID’:tn OR ‘FLEXAVI CR 150 MG’:tn OR ‘JUNEFLECAD’:tn OR ‘REORYTHMIN’:tn OR ‘RPG’:tn OR  ‘TAMBOCOR’:tn OR ‘TARFLEC’:tn OR ‘FLECAINIDE’:tn OR ‘ARISTOCOR’:tn OR ‘DIONDEL’:tn OR  ‘FLECAINE’:tn OR ‘FLECAINIDE’:tn OR ‘FLECATAB’:tn OR ‘TAMBOCOR’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   237.  Povidone, Iodinated   ‘POVIDONE, IODINATED’ OR ‘POVIDONE IODINE’ OR ‘IODINATED POVIDONE’ OR ‘PVP -IODINE’ OR  ‘POLYVIDONE -IODINE’ OR ‘1 -ETHENYLPYRROLIDIN -2-ONE; MOLECULAR IODINE’ OR  ‘POLYVINYLPYRROLIDONE -IODINE COMPLEX’ OR ‘JODIRANI POVIDON’ OR ‘POVIDON -JOD’ OR  ‘JÓDOVANÝ POVIDÓN’ OR ‘IOD POVIDONĂ’ OR ‘POWIDON JODOWANY’ OR ‘JODOWANY POWIDON’ OR  ‘POVIDON -JOOD’ OR ‘POVIDONUM IODINATUM’ OR ‘IODOPOVIDONE’ OR ‘POVIDON -JÓD’ OR  ‘POVIDON, JODIRANI’ OR ‘POVIDONE IODÉE’ OR ‘POLYVIDONE IODEE’ OR ‘JODATTU POVIDONI’ OR  ‘POVIDONA YODADA’ OR ‘POVIDONA IODADA’ OR ‘POVIDONUM IODINATUM’ OR ‘MERCUCHROM’:tn OR  ‘NORMOVIDONA’:tn OR ‘NYODEX’:tn OR ‘OFTASTERIL’:tn OR ‘OXISEPT’:tn OR ‘POLYDONA’:tn OR  ‘POLYSEPT’:tn OR ‘PREDYL’:tn OR ‘PV JOD 10%’:tn OR ‘PVP JOD’:tn OR ‘PVP -JOD’:tn OR ‘PVP -JOD  AL’:tn OR ‘SANOYODO’:tn OR ‘SAVLON DRY’:tn OR ‘SENEBACTUM’:tn OR ‘SEPTIL  SOLUÇÃO’:tn OR  ‘SEPTIL SOLUÇÃO’:tn OR ‘SEPTIL, PÓ’:tn OR ‘TOPIONIC’:tn OR ‘VIDENE’:tn OR ‘BETADINE’:tn OR  ‘BETAISODONA’:tn OR ‘COLPO -CLEANER JÓD’:tn OR ‘DORMIZIN PASTA’:tn OR ‘ISO -BETADINE’:tn OR  ‘J-IODE’:tn OR ‘JOX’:tn OR ‘NEGMIN’:tn OR ‘NEOJODIN’:tn OR ‘POPIYODON’:tn OR ‘POPYRON’:tn OR  ‘POVIDONE IODINE’:tn OR ‘POVIODINE’:tn OR ‘PROVIODINE’:tn OR ‘TRAUMASEPT’:tn OR  ‘TRIADINE’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 250/368   'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   238.  Testosterone   ‘TESTOSTERONE’ OR ‘TESTOSTERON’ OR ‘TESTOSTERÓN’ OR ‘TESTOSTERON’ OR ‘TESTOSTERONA’ OR  ‘TESTOSTERON’ OR ‘TESTOSTERON’ OR ‘TESTOSTERON’ OR ‘TESTOSTERONE’ OR ‘TESTOSTERONS’ OR  ‘TESTOSTERONAS’ OR ‘TESTOSTERONUM’ OR ‘TESZTOSZTERON’ OR ‘TESTOSTERONE’ OR  ‘TESTOSTÉRONE’ OR ‘TESTOSTERONI’ OR ‘TESTOSTEROON’ OR ‘TESTOSTERONA’ OR ‘TESTOSTERON’  OR ‘TESTOSTERON’ OR ‘TESTOSTERONUM’ OR ‘AGOVIRIN’:tn OR ‘ANDRIOL’:tn OR ‘ANDROGEL’:tn OR  ‘ANDROTARDYL’:tn OR ‘ANDROTOP’:tn OR ‘ANDROTOPIC’:tn OR ‘AXIRON’:tn OR ‘AXXERON’:tn OR  ‘FORTIGEL’:tn OR ‘ITNOGEN’:tn OR ‘NEBID’:tn OR ‘NEBIDO’:tn OR ‘PANTESTON’:tn OR  ‘PANTESTONE’:tn OR ‘REANDRON’:tn OR ‘RESTANDOL’:tn OR ‘STRIANT’:tn OR ‘TESTEX’:tn OR  ‘TESTIM’:tn OR ‘TESTO ENANT’:tn OR ‘TESTOCAPS’:tn OR ‘TESTOGEL’:tn OR ‘TESTOPATCH’:tn OR  ‘TESTOSTERON DEPOT ROTEXMEDICA’:tn OR ‘TESTOSTERONE ENANTATE’:tn OR ‘TESTOSTERONE  ENANTHATE’:tn OR ‘TESTOSTERONUM PROLONGATUM JELFA’:tn OR ‘TESTOTOP’:tn OR  ‘TESTOVIRON’:tn OR ‘TOSTRAN’:tn OR ‘TOSTREX’:tn OR ‘UNDESTOR’:tn OR ‘VIRORMONE’:tn OR  ‘ANDRIOL’:tn OR ‘ANDRODERM’:tn OR ‘ANDROGEL’:tn OR ‘ANDROID’:tn OR ‘ANDROPATCH’:tn OR  ‘AVEED’:tn OR ‘AXIRON’:tn OR ‘BOTHERMON’:tn OR ‘DELATESTRYL’:tn OR ‘DEPO -TESTOSTERONE’:tn  OR ‘DEPOSTERON’:tn OR ‘DURATESTON’:tn OR ‘ENARMON’:tn OR ‘FORTESTA’:tn OR ‘INTRINSA’:tn OR  ‘LOWTIYEL’:tn OR ‘METHITEST’:tn OR ‘NEBIDO’:tn OR ‘PANTESTON’:tn OR ‘PRIMOTESTON’:tn OR  ‘REANDRON’:tn OR ‘STRIANT’:tn OR ‘SUSTENON’:tn OR ‘TESTIM’:tn OR ‘TESTODERM’:tn OR  ‘TESTOGEL’:tn OR ‘TESTOPEL’:tn OR ‘TESTOSTERON’:tn OR ‘TESTOVIRON’:tn OR ‘TESTRED’:tn OR  ‘TOSTRAN’:tn OR ‘VIRILON’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 251/368   239.  Cefaclor   ‘CEFACLOR’ OR ‘CEFACLORUM’ OR ‘CÉFACLOR’ OR ‘ALFATIL’:tn OR ‘ALPHEXINE’:tn OR ‘ALTACLOR’:tn  OR ‘BACTIGRAM’:tn OR ‘CECLOR MR’:tn OR ‘CEC’:tn OR ‘CECLODYNE’:tn OR ‘CECLOR’:tn OR  ‘CECLORETTA’:tn OR ‘CEFACLORIL’:tn OR ‘CEFACLORO GERMED’:tn OR ‘CEFAKLOR HEMOFARM’:tn OR  ‘CEFASTAD’:tn OR ‘CEFLACOR LABESFAL’:tn OR ‘CLORACEF’:tn OR ‘CLORAZER’:tn OR ‘DISTACLOR’:tn  OR ‘DOCCEFACLO’:tn OR ‘HAXIFAL’:tn OR ‘KEFOLOR’:tn OR ‘KEFTID’:tn OR ‘MACOVAN’:tn OR  ‘MAKOVAN’:tn OR ‘MEDOCLOR’:tn OR ‘NECLORAL’:tn OR ‘ORALCEF’:tn OR ‘PANACEF’:tn OR  ‘PANORAL’:tn OR ‘PERFORMER’:tn OR ‘PINACLOR’:tn OR ‘REMECLOR’:tn OR ‘SELVICLOR’:tn OR  ‘SYNTOCLOR’:tn OR ‘VALECLOR’:tn OR ‘VERCEF’:tn OR ‘ALENFRAL’:tn OR ‘CEC’:tn OR ‘CECLODAN’:tn  OR ‘CECLOR’:tn OR ‘CEFACLOR’:tn OR ‘DISTACLOR’:tn OR ‘ERICANAL’:tn OR ‘KEFLOR’:tn OR  ‘KEFPOLIN’:tn OR ‘KEFRAL’:tn OR ‘KULILEL’:tn OR ‘L -KEFRAL’:tn OR ‘MACOVAN’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   240.  Nicotine   ‘NICOTINE’ OR ‘NIKOTIN’ OR ‘NIKOTÍN’ OR ‘NICOTINĂ’ OR ‘NICOTINA’ OR ‘NIKOTYNA’ OR ‘NIKOTIN’  OR ‘NICOTINE’ OR ‘NIKOTINAS’ OR ‘NICOTINA’ OR ‘NIKOTIN’ OR ‘NIKOTIN’ OR ‘NICOTINE’ OR  ‘NIKOTIINIA’ OR ‘NIKOTIINI’ OR ‘NIKOTIIN’ OR ‘NICOTINA’ OR ‘NIKOTIN’ OR ‘NICORETTESKIN’:tn OR  ‘NICORETTESPRAY’:tn OR ‘NICOROL’:tn OR ‘NICOTAB’:tn OR ‘NICOTINE’:tn OR ‘NICOTINELL’:tn OR  ‘NICOTINUM’:tn OR ‘NICOVEL MINTSMAK’:tn OR ‘NICOVER FRUIT’:tn OR ‘NIKORONO MINT’:tn OR  ‘NIQERO MINT’:tn OR ‘NIQUITIN’:tn OR ‘NIQUITINCQUE SANS SUCRE’:tn OR ‘NIQUITINMINIS’:tn OR  ‘MUNDHULESPRAY’:tn OR ‘QUITT SABOR MENTA EFG’:tn OR ‘VOKE’:tn OR ‘ZETAMINT’:tn OR  ‘ZONNIC’:tn OR ‘NICOTINE’:tn OR ‘NICOTINELL’:tn OR ‘NIQUITIN’:tn OR ‘QUITX’:tn AND ('adverse  drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR  'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 252/368   immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   241.  Oxymetazoline   ‘OXYMETAZOLINE’ OR ‘OXYMETAZOLINUM’ OR ‘OXIMETAZOLINA’ OR ‘ACATAR’:tn OR ‘ACTIFED  NASALE’:tn OR ‘AFRIN’:tn OR ‘ALERFRIN’:tn OR ‘ALERJON’:tn OR ‘ALMUS DECONGESTANT’:tn OR  ‘ANTIRRINUM ADULTOS NUEVA FÓRMULA’:tn OR ‘ATURGYL’:tn OR ‘AURORESPIR’:tn OR ‘BABY SINE  CONSERVANS’:tn OR ‘BISOLSPARY NEBULICINA ADULTO’:tn OR ‘BLOCKED NOSE RELIEF’:tn OR ‘CARE  DECONGESTANT’:tn OR ‘COULDESPIR’:tn OR ‘CUVENAX’:tn OR ‘EQUIMET’:tn OR ‘EZIXIN’:tn OR  ‘FRIRESP’:tn OR ‘LAIRESP’:tn OR ‘LEVIORINIL NASALE’:tn OR ‘NARIELLE’:tn OR ‘NASAROX’:tn OR  ‘NASEX’:tn OR ‘NASIBEN SANFT FÜR BABYS’:tn OR ‘NASIN’:tn OR ‘NASIVIN’:tn OR ‘NASOLINA’:tn OR  ‘NASORHINATHIOL’:tn OR ‘NAZOXIN’:tn OR ‘NEBULICINA’:tn OR ‘NENÄSUMUTE’:tn OR ‘NEO  BOROCILLINA NASALE’:tn OR ‘NESIVINE’:tn OR ‘NEZERIL’:tn OR ‘NORMONASAL’:tn OR ‘NOSOX’:tn OR  ‘NOVAG RINO’:tn OR ‘NUEREL’:tn OR ‘NÄSSPRAY’:tn OR ‘OKALRINUS’:tn OR ‘OPERIL’:tn OR  ‘OSSIMETAZOLINA CARLO ERBA’:tn OR ‘OXALIN’:tn OR ‘OXAMET’:tn OR ‘OXIDROPZ’:tn OR ‘OXILIN’:tn  OR ‘OXYLIN’:tn OR ‘OXYMETAZOLIN’:tn OR ‘PERNAZENE’:tn OR ‘RESPIBIEN’:tn OR ‘RHINOX’:tn OR  ‘RINAZOLINE 0,01%’:tn OR ‘RINERGE’:tn OR ‘RINO CALYPTOL’:tn OR ‘RINOXIN’:tn OR ‘SINEX’:tn OR  ‘SINEXSENSI’:tn OR ‘SINPIR’:tn OR ‘UTABON’:tn OR ‘VAPOSPRAY’:tn OR ‘VICKS SINEX’:tn OR  ‘AFRIN’:tn OR ‘ALRIN’:tn OR ‘ATURGYL’:tn OR ‘CORICIDIN’:tn OR ‘DRISTAN’:tn OR ‘DRIXINE’:tn OR  ‘DRIXORAL’:tn OR ‘ILIADIN’:tn OR ‘NASEX’:tn OR ‘NASIVIN’:tn OR ‘NASIVINE’:tn OR  ‘NASIVINETTEN’:tn OR ‘NAZOL’:tn OR ‘NOKSPREY’:tn OR ‘NOSTRILLA’:tn OR ‘SUDAFED NASAL  DECONGESTANT’:tn OR ‘VICKS SINEX’:tn OR ‘VISINE (OXYMETAZOLINE HYDROCHLORIDE)’:tn AND  ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti  OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   242.  Cefixime   ‘CEFIXIME’ OR ‘CEFIKSIM’ OR ‘CEFIXIM’ OR ‘CEFIXIMĂ’ OR ‘CEFIXIMA’ OR ‘CEFIKSYMU’ OR ‘CEFIXIM’  OR ‘CEFIXIMUM’ OR ‘CEFIXIMA’ OR ‘CEFIXIM’ OR ‘CEFIKSIM’ OR ‘CÉFIXIME’ OR ‘CEFIXIMA’ OR  ‘CEFIXIMUM’ OR ‘AEROCEF’ OR ‘ALMUS’ OR ‘CEFEXIN’ OR ‘CEFIMED’ OR ‘CEFIMIX’ OR ‘CEFIXDURA’:tn     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 253/368   OR ‘CEFIXIMA EG’:tn OR ‘CEFIXIME’:tn OR ‘CEFIXORAL’:tn OR ‘CEFIZEL’:tn OR ‘CEFTORAL’:tn OR  ‘CIFEX’:tn OR ‘DENVAR’:tn OR ‘EFICEF’:tn OR ‘NEOCEF’:tn OR ‘OROKEN’:tn OR ‘PANCEF’:tn OR  ‘SUPRACEF’:tn OR ‘SUPRAX’:tn OR ‘TRICEF’:tn OR ‘UNIXIME’:tn OR ‘XIFIA’:tn OR ‘AEROCEF’:tn OR  ‘CEFIX’:tn OR ‘CEFSPAN’:tn OR ‘CEPHORAL’:tn OR ‘CEXIM’:tn OR ‘DENVAR’:tn OR ‘FIXIME’:tn OR  ‘OROKEN’:tn OR ‘PANCEF’:tn OR ‘REFIXIME’:tn OR ‘SUPRACEF’:tn OR ‘SUPRAX’:tn OR ‘TRICEF’:tn AND  ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti  OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   243.  Ciclopirox   ‘CICLOPIROX’ OR ‘CYKLOPIROKS’ OR ‘CICLOPIROXUM’ OR ‘CICLOPIROX’ OR ‘AXOPIROX’:tn OR  ‘BATRACOMB’:tn OR ‘BATRAFEN ‘:tn OR ‘BIOGINAL’:tn OR ‘BRUMIXOL’:tn OR ‘CAPITEC’:tn OR  ‘CICLOCHEM’:tn OR ‘CICLOCUTAN’:tn OR ‘CICLOLACK’:tn OR ‘CICLOPIROX’:tn OR ‘CICLOPOLI’:tn OR  ‘COCLAMUL’:tn OR ‘DAFNEGIN’:tn OR ‘DECME’:tn OR ‘FUNGOWAS’:tn OR ‘HAUTICUM’:tn OR  ‘KITONAIL’:tn OR ‘MICLAST’:tn OR ‘MICOMICEN’:tn OR ‘MICOXOLAMINA CREMA’:tn OR ‘MYCONAIL’:tn  OR ‘MYCOSKIN’:tn OR ‘MYCOSTEN’:tn OR ‘MYCOSTER’:tn OR ‘NAGEL BATRAFEN’:tn OR ‘NEO - BOTACREME’:tn OR ‘NEO -MYCODERMOL’:tn OR ‘NIOGERMOS’:tn OR ‘NIOGERMOX’:tn OR ‘ONY -TEC’:tn  OR ‘ONYTEC’:tn OR ‘OXOLAM’:tn OR ‘PEDIFONGIC’:tn OR ‘PIROLAM’:tn OR ‘POLINAIL’:tn OR  ‘ROXOLAC’:tn OR ‘SEBIPROX’:tn OR ‘LOPROX’:tn OR ‘MICOLAMINA’:tn OR ‘MYCOSTER’:tn OR ‘NAGEL  BATRAFEN’:tn OR ‘NIBULEN’:tn OR ‘PENLAC’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 254/368   OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   244.  Minoxidil   ‘MINOXIDIL’ OR ‘MINOXIDILUM’ OR ‘MINOKSIDILIS’ OR ‘MINOXIDILUM’ OR ‘MINOKSIDIL’ OR  ‘MINOXIDILUM’ OR ‘ALO2%SOL’:tn OR ‘ALO5%SOLMRP’:tn OR ‘ALOMAX’:tn OR ‘ALOPEXY’:tn OR  ‘ALOSTIL’:tn OR ‘ALOXIDIL’:tn OR ‘AXELAN’:tn OR ‘BELOHAIR’:tn OR ‘BOTAFEX’:tn OR ‘CAREXIDIL’:tn  OR ‘DINAXIL’:tn OR ‘FOLCARE’:tn OR ‘HAIRGROW’:tn OR ‘HAIRWAY’:tn OR ‘LACOVIN’:tn OR  ‘LONITEN’:tn OR ‘LONNOTEN’:tn OR ‘LONOLOX’:tn OR ‘LONOTEN’:tn OR ‘LOTORIN’:tn OR ‘LOXON’:tn  OR ‘MINODRIL’:tn OR ‘MINOVITAL’:tn OR ‘MINOXIDIL’:tn OR ‘MINOXIMEN’:tn OR ‘NEOCAPIL’:tn OR  ‘NEOXIDIL’:tn OR ‘NHEREA’:tn OR ‘PILFUD’:tn OR ‘RECREA’:tn OR ‘REGAINE’:tn OR ‘REGAXIDIL’:tn OR  ‘ROGAINE’:tn OR ‘TREFOSTIL’:tn OR ‘TRICOVIVAX’:tn OR ‘UNIPEXIL’:tn OR ‘VIUS’:tn OR ‘ZELDILON’:tn  OR ‘ALOPEXY’:tn OR ‘LONITEN’:tn OR ‘LOXON’:tn OR ‘MANTAI’:tn OR ‘MENS REGAINE’:tn OR ‘MENS  ROGAINE’:tn OR ‘MENS KIRKLAND’:tn OR ‘MINOX’:tn OR ‘NEOCAPIL’:tn OR ‘REGAIN’:tn OR  ‘REGAINE’:tn OR ‘REGAINE,’:tn OR ‘ROGAINE’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   245.  Pentoxifylline   ‘PENTOXIFYLLINE’ OR ‘OXPENTIFYLLINE’ OR ‘PENTOXIFILINĂ’ OR ‘PENTOXIFYLLINUM’ OR  ‘PENTOSSIFILLINA’ OR ‘PENTOXIFYLLINE’ OR ‘PENTOXIFILINA’ OR ‘PENTOXIFYLLIN’ OR ‘AGAPURIN’:tn  OR ‘ANGIOPENT’:tn OR ‘BEHRIFIL’:tn OR ‘CHINOTAL INJEKCIÓ’:tn OR ‘DARTELIN’:tn OR  ‘DURAPENTAL’:tn OR ‘ELORGAN’:tn OR ‘HEMOVÁS’:tn OR ‘HERDEN’:tn OR ‘NELORPIN’:tn OR  ‘OXIFLUX’:tn OR ‘PENTILIN’:tn OR ‘PENTOHEXAL’:tn OR ‘PENTOMER’:tn OR ‘PENTOX -CT’:tn OR  ‘PENTOXIFILIN TERAPIA’:tn OR ‘PENTOXIN’:tn OR ‘PENTOXIPHARM’:tn OR ‘POLFILIN’:tn OR  ‘RENTYLIN’:tn OR ‘TARONTAL’:tn OR ‘TORENTAL’:tn OR ‘TRENTAL’:tn OR ‘VASONIT’:tn OR  ‘AGAPURIN’:tn OR ‘PENTOXIFYLLINE SR’:tn OR ‘CLAUDICAT’:tn OR ‘OXOPURIN’:tn OR ‘PENTILIN’:tn  OR ‘PENTOFLUX LP’:tn OR ‘PENTOFYLLIN’:tn OR ‘PENTOXI’:tn OR ‘PENTOXIFYLLIN’:tn OR  ‘PENTOXIL’:tn OR ‘PENTOXIN’:tn OR ‘PENTOXYL’:tn OR ‘RENTYLIN’:tn OR ‘RETIMAX’:tn OR  ‘TORENTAL’:tn OR ‘TOXIPEN’:tn OR ‘TRENTAL’:tn OR ‘VASONIT’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp  OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 255/368   complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   246.  Tocopherol   ‘TOCOPHEROL’ OR ‘TOKOFEROL’ OR ‘TOCOPHÉROL’ OR ‘GESAMTTOCOPHEROLE’ OR ‘TOCOFEROLUM’  OR ‘ANTIOXIDANS’:tn OR ‘ARMILLA’:tn OR ‘ATREDERM’:tn OR ‘AUXINA E’:tn OR ‘BIO -E-VITAMIN’:tn  OR ‘BIOPTO -E’:tn OR ‘BUERLECITHIN PLUS VITAMINE’:tn OR ‘CICATRYL’:tn OR ‘COREGAN PLUS HERZ - KREISLAUF KAPSELN’:tn OR ‘DIFRAREL’:tn OR ‘DOPPELSTERN VITAMIN E’:tn OR ‘E -VIMIN’:tn OR ‘E - VITAMIN BÉRES’:tn OR ‘E -VITAMIN NATUR -DROGERIET’:tn OR ‘EPHYNAL’:tn OR ‘EREVIT’:tn OR  ‘ETOCOVIT’:tn OR ‘EUSOVIT’:tn OR ‘EUSOVITAL’:tn OR ‘EVIOL’:tn OR ‘EVION’:tn OR ‘EVIT’:tn OR  ‘EVITOL’:tn OR ‘FIDI KOENCIM 10 -’:tn OR ‘KLOSTERFRAU VITAMIN E’:tn OR ‘KNEIPP ARNIKA’:tn OR  ‘MAKROVIT’:tn OR ‘NATUR -E’:tn OR ‘OPTOVIT E’:tn OR ‘PANDEMRIX’:tn OR ‘PREPANDRIX  INDONESIA’:tn OR ‘PUMARIX’:tn OR ‘Q10 BÉRES’:tn OR ‘RIGENTEX’:tn OR ‘ROVIGON’:tn OR ‘RRR - ALPHA -TOCOPHEROL’:tn OR ‘SALONPAS’:tn OR ‘SANO VITAMIN E’:tn OR ‘SURSUM’:tn OR ‘TAXOFIT’:tn  OR ‘TOCO’:tn OR ‘TOCOHERM’:tn OR ‘TOCOLION’:tn OR ‘TOCOPA’:tn OR ‘TOCOVITAL’:tn OR ‘VE  150’:tn OR ‘VEDROP’:tn OR ‘VITA -E’:tn OR ‘VITAGUTT VITAMIN E’:tn OR ‘VITAMIN E’:tn OR ‘VITAMINE  E’:tn OR ‘VITAMINUM E’:tn OR ‘DETULIN’:tn OR ‘E -VIMIN’:tn OR ‘EDIROL’:tn OR ‘EPHYNAL’:tn OR  ‘EVION’:tn OR ‘EVIT’:tn OR ‘EVITOL’:tn OR ‘JUVELA’:tn OR ‘MEGA E’:tn OR ‘PINOSOL’:tn OR ‘TEUTOVIT  E’:tn OR ‘TOCO’:tn OR ‘TOCOPA’:tn OR ‘TOZAL’:tn OR ‘UNDEVIT’:tn OR ‘VANARL’:tn OR ‘VECTAN’:tn  OR ‘VITA’:tn OR ‘VITA E’:tn OR ‘VITAMIN E’:tn OR ‘VITAMINE E’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp  OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 256/368   247.  Ampicillin   ‘AMPICILLIN’ OR ‘AMINOBENZYLPENICILLIN’ OR ‘AMPICILINĂ’ OR ‘AMPICILĪNA’ OR ‘AMPICILINO’ OR  ‘AMPICILLINUM’ OR ‘AMPICILLINA’ OR ‘AMPICILLINE’ OR ‘AMPITSILLIINI’ OR ‘AMPICILINA’ OR  ‘AMPICILLIN’ OR ‘AMPICILLIN’ OR ‘A -PEN’ OR ‘AMIPISULCILLIN’ OR ‘AMPICILIN’ OR ‘AMPICILINA’ OR  ‘AMPICLOX’ OR ‘AMPIPLUS’ OR ‘AMPISID’ OR ‘AMPISULCILLIN’ OR ‘AMPLITAL’:tn OR ‘BACACIL’:tn OR  ‘BACAMPICILLINA’:tn OR ‘BACASINT’:tn OR ‘BEGALIN -P’:tn OR ‘BETHACIL’:tn OR ‘BITAMMON’:tn OR  ‘BRITCIN’:tn OR ‘CO -FLUAMPICIL’:tn OR ‘COPERCILEX’:tn OR ‘DEMOTINE’:tn OR ‘DOKTACILLIN’:tn OR  ‘GOBEMICINA’:tn OR ‘HIPERBIÓTICO’:tn OR ‘LORICIN’:tn OR ‘MAGNAPEN’:tn OR ‘PAMECIL’:tn OR  ‘PENBRITIN’:tn OR ‘PENODIL’:tn OR ‘PENTREXYL’:tn OR ‘PONDOCILLIN’:tn OR ‘SEMICILLIN’:tn OR  ‘STANDACILLIN’:tn OR ‘SYNTOCIL’:tn OR ‘UNACID’:tn OR ‘UNASYN’:tn OR ‘AMBLOSIN’:tn OR  ‘AMCILLIN’:tn OR ‘AMPI APO’:tn OR ‘AMPICLOX’:tn OR ‘AMPISID’:tn OR ‘AMPLITAL’:tn OR ‘AMPOLIN’:tn  OR ‘AMSUL’:tn OR ‘BACACIL’:tn OR ‘BINOTAL’:tn OR ‘DOKTACILLIN’:tn OR ‘MAGNAPEN’:tn OR  ‘PENBRITIN’:tn OR ‘PENGLOBE’:tn OR ‘PENTREXYL’:tn OR ‘PICILLIBACTA’:tn OR ‘PISULCIN’:tn OR  ‘PONDOCILLIN’:tn OR ‘STANDACILLIN’:tn OR ‘SULBACILLIN’:tn OR ‘SULBACSIN’:tn OR  ‘SULBACTAM’:tn OR ‘SULTASIN’:tn OR ‘TOTAPEN’:tn OR ‘UNACID’:tn OR ‘UNACIM’:tn OR ‘UNASYN’:tn  OR ‘VICCILLIN’:tn OR ‘YUCION -S’:tn OR ‘YUNASUPIN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   248.  Lormetazepam   ‘LORMETAZEPAM’ OR ‘LORMETAZEPAMUM’ OR ‘LORMÉTAZÉPAM’ OR ‘ALDOSOMNIL’:tn OR ‘AXILIUM’:tn  OR ‘ERGOCALM’:tn OR ‘IPNOLOR’:tn OR ‘LOMETAZEPAM ALTER’:tn OR ‘LORAMET’:tn OR ‘LORANKA’:tn  OR ‘LORETAM’:tn OR ‘LORMETAZEPAM’:tn OR ‘LORMETAZEPAM CF’:tn OR ‘LUZUL’:tn OR ‘MEXYLOR’:tn  OR ‘MINIAS’:tn OR ‘NOCTAMID’:tn OR ‘NOCTAMIDE’:tn OR ‘PRONOCTAN’:tn OR ‘SEDALON’:tn OR  ‘SEDALOR’:tn OR ‘STILAZE’:tn OR ‘EVAMYL’:tn OR ‘LORMETAZEPAM’:tn OR ‘METATOP’:tn OR  ‘NOCTAMID’:tn OR ‘NOCTAMIDE’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 257/368   OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   249.  Alprostadil   ‘ALPROSTADIL’ OR ‘PROSTAGLANDIN E1’ OR ‘PGE1’:tn OR ‘ALPROSTADILA’ OR ‘ALPROSTADILUM’ OR  ‘ALPROSTADIL’ OR ‘ALPROSTADYL’ OR ‘ALPROSTADILO’ OR ‘ALPROSTADIL’ OR ‘ALPROSTADYL’ OR  ‘ALPROSTADIL’ OR ‘ALPROSTADIL’ OR ‘ALPROSTADILUM’ OR ‘ALPROSTADILA’ OR ‘ALPROSTADILIO’ OR  ‘ALPROSTADILUM’ OR ‘ALPROSTADIL’ OR ‘ALPROSTADILI’ OR ‘ALPROSTADILUM’ OR ‘ALPROSZTADIL’  OR ‘ALPROSTADIL’ OR ‘ALPROSTADIL’ OR ‘ALPROSTADILO’ OR ‘ALPROSTADIL’ OR ‘ALPROSTADIL’ OR  ‘ALPROSTADILUM’ OR ‘ALPROSTAN’ OR ‘ALPROSTAPINT’ OR ‘ALPROSTIN VR’:tn OR ‘BONDIL’:tn OR  ‘CAVERJECT’:tn OR ‘EDEX’:tn OR ‘KARON’:tn OR ‘MINPROG’:tn OR ‘MUSE’:tn OR ‘PRIDAX’:tn OR  ‘PROSTAVASIN’:tn OR ‘PROSTIN VR’:tn OR ‘PROSTIVAS’:tn OR ‘SUGIRAN’:tn OR ‘VASAPROSTAN’:tn  OR ‘VASOPROST’:tn OR ‘VASOSTENOON’:tn OR ‘VIRIDAL’:tn OR ‘VIRIDAL DUO’:tn OR ‘VIRIREC’:tn OR  ‘VITAROS’:tn OR ‘VYTAROS’:tn OR ‘ALPROSTADIL’:tn OR ‘ALPROSTAPINT’:tn OR ‘ALYPROST’:tn OR  ‘APISTANDIN’:tn OR ‘CAVERJECT’:tn OR ‘EDEX’:tn OR ‘LIPLE’:tn OR ‘MUSE’:tn OR ‘PALUX’:tn OR  ‘PRINK’:tn OR ‘PROSTANDIN’:tn OR ‘PROSTAVASIN’:tn OR ‘PROSTIN VR’:tn OR ‘TANDETRON’:tn OR  ‘VASAPROSTAN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR  'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   250.  Amorolfine   ‘AMOROLFINE’ OR ‘AMOROLFINA’ OR ‘AMOROLFINY’ OR ‘AMOROLFINUM’ OR ‘AMOROLFÍN’ OR  ‘AMOROLFINE’ OR ‘AMOROLFINA’ OR ‘AMOROLFINE’ OR ‘AMOROLFIN’ OR ‘AMOROLFIN’ OR ‘AMOFIN’:tn  OR ‘AMOROCUTAN’:tn OR ‘AMOROLAK’:tn OR ‘AMOROLFIN’:tn OR ‘AMOROLFINA’:tn OR  ‘AMOROLFINE’:tn OR ‘AMORSTAD’:tn OR ‘ARIVIL’:tn OR ‘CLAVUSIMYL’:tn OR ‘CURANAIL’:tn OR  ‘FAMOROL’:tn OR ‘FENTAL’:tn OR ‘FINAIL’:tn OR ‘FUNALYX’:tn OR ‘FUNGILAC’:tn OR ‘FUNGOLINE’:tn  OR ‘FUNTROL’:tn OR ‘LOCERYL’:tn OR ‘LOCETAR’:tn OR ‘MYCONOLAK’:tn OR ‘NAGELAN’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 258/368   ‘NEOLAQUE’:tn OR ‘ODENIL’:tn OR ‘OLMEDIN’:tn OR ‘OMICUR’:tn OR ‘ONILAQ’:tn OR ‘SINIBAL’:tn OR  ‘TINECUR’:tn OR ‘UNGLYFOL’:tn OR ‘ΖΑΟΝΑΙL’:tn OR ‘CURANAIL’:tn OR ‘LOCERYL’:tn OR ‘PEKIRON’:tn  AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR  misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp  OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   251.  Levothyroxine   ‘LEVOTHYROXINE’ OR ‘LEVOTIROXINA’ OR ‘L -THYROXINE’ OR ‘LEVOTYROXIN’ OR ‘ACCU -THYROX’ OR  ‘BERLTHYROX’ OR ‘COMBITHYREX MITE’ OR ‘DEXNÓN’ OR ‘DICITIROX’ OR ‘DITHYRON’ OR ‘EFEROX’  OR ‘ELTHYRONE’ OR ‘ELTROXIN’ OR ‘EUTHYRAL’ OR ‘EUTHYROX’ OR ‘EUTIROX’ OR ‘JODTHYROX’ OR ‘L - THYROX’ OR ‘L -THYROXIN’ OR ‘L -THYROXINE’ OR ‘LETROX’ OR ‘LEVAXIN’ OR ‘LEVO -4/RAFARM’:tn OR  ‘LEVOTHYROX’:tn OR ‘LEVOTHYROXIN’:tn OR ‘LEVOTHYROXINE’:tn OR ‘LEVOTHYROXINENATRIUM’:tn  OR ‘MEDITHYROX’:tn OR ‘NOVOTHYRAL’:tn OR ‘PROTHYRID’:tn OR ‘SOMATOLINE’:tn OR  ‘SYNTROXINE’:tn OR ‘THYROX’:tn OR ‘THEVIER’:tn OR ‘THYRAX’:tn OR ‘THYREOCOMB’:tn OR  ‘THYREX’:tn OR ‘THYRO -4’:tn OR ‘THYROFIX’:tn OR ‘THYRONAJOD’:tn OR ‘TICHE’:tn OR ‘TIROSINT’:tn  OR ‘WOLAREX’:tn OR ‘DIOTROXIN’:tn OR ‘EFEROX’:tn OR ‘ELTHYRONE’:tn OR ‘ELTROXIN’:tn OR  ‘EUTHYRAL’:tn OR ‘EUTHYROX’:tn OR ‘EUTIROX’:tn OR ‘EUTROXSIG’:tn OR ‘JODTHYROX’:tn OR  ‘KARET’:tn OR ‘L -THYROX’:tn OR ‘L -THYROXIN’:tn OR ‘LETROX’:tn OR ‘LEVAXIN’:tn OR ‘LEVO -T’:tn OR  ‘LEVOID’:tn OR ‘LEVOTHROID’:tn OR ‘LEVOTHYROX’:tn OR ‘LEVOTHYROXIN’:tn OR  ‘LEVOTHYROXINE’:tn OR ‘LEVOTIRON’:tn OR ‘LEVOTIROXINA’:tn OR ‘LEVOXYL’:tn OR  ‘NOVOTHYRAL’:tn OR ‘NOVOTIRAL’:tn OR ‘OROXINE’:tn OR ‘PURAN T4’:tn OR ‘SOMATOLINE’:tn OR  ‘SYNTHROID’:tn OR ‘THYRADIN -S’:tn OR ‘THYRAX’:tn OR ‘THYREX’:tn OR ‘THYRO -4’:tn OR  ‘THYROHORMONE’:tn OR ‘THYROLAR’:tn OR ‘THYRONAJOD’:tn OR ‘THYROSIT’:tn OR ‘THYROXIN’:tn OR  ‘TIROIDE’:tn OR ‘TIROSINT’:tn OR ‘TIROXIN’:tn OR ‘UNITHROID’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp  OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 259/368   'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   252.  Moxonidine   ‘MOXONIDINE’ OR ‘4 -CHLORO -N-(4,5-DIHYDRO -1H-IMIDAZOL -2-YL)-6-METHOXY -2-METHYL - PYRIMIDIN -5-AMINE’ OR ‘MOXONIDIN’ OR ‘MOKSONIDINA’ OR ‘MOXONIDINA’ OR ‘MOKSONIDINA’ OR  ‘MOKSONIDINAS’ OR ‘MOXONIDINUM’ OR ‘MOXONIDINA’ OR ‘MOXONIDIN’ OR ‘MOXONIDINE’ OR  ‘MOXONIDINA’ OR ‘MOXONIDIN’ OR ‘CYNT’:tn OR ‘FISIOTENS’:tn OR ‘MOKSONIDIN’:tn OR  ‘MOXAMAR’:tn OR ‘MOXAVIV’:tn OR ‘MOXOBETA’:tn OR ‘MOXODURA’:tn OR ‘MOXOGAMMA’:tn OR  ‘MOXON’:tn OR ‘MOXONAT’:tn OR ‘MOXONIBENE’:tn OR ‘MOXONIDIN’:tn OR ‘MOXONIDINE’:tn OR  ‘MOXONUR’:tn OR ‘MOXOSTAD’:tn OR ‘MOXOTENS’:tn OR ‘MOКСОТЕНС’:tn OR ‘NORMOHEX’:tn OR  ‘PHYSIOTENS’:tn OR ‘МОКСОRАММА’:tn OR ‘CYNT’:tn OR ‘FISIOTENS’:tn OR ‘MOXONIDIN’:tn OR  ‘MOXONIDINE’:tn OR ‘PHYSIOTENS’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   253.  Nitrous Oxide   ‘NITROUS OXIDE’ OR ‘NITROGEN MONOXIDE’ OR ‘DISTICKSTOFFMONOXID’ OR ‘LAUGHING GAS’:tn  OR ‘OXIDO NITROSO’ OR ‘NITROGEN DIOXIDE’ OR ‘DINITROGENII OXIDUM’ OR ‘AZOTO PROTOSSIDO’  OR ‘DIKVÄVEOXID’ OR ‘PROTÓXIDO DE AZOTO’ OR ‘DISTIKSTOFOXIDE’ OR ‘SLĀPEKĻA OKSIDULS’ OR  ‘DINITROGENII OXIDUM’ OR ‘TVÍKÖFNUNAREFNISOXÍÐ’ OR ‘PROTOXYDE DAZOTE’ OR ‘PROTOXYDE  AZOTE’ OR ‘DITYPPIOKSIDI’ OR ‘PROTOXIDO DE NITROGENO’ OR ‘OXIDO NITROSO’ OR  ‘DISTICKSTOFFMONOXID’ OR ‘DINITROGENOXID’ OR ‘OXID DUSNÝ’ OR ‘AZOTO PROTOSSIDO’ OR  ‘DIAZOTO OKSIDAS’ OR ‘DINITROGÉN -OXID’ OR ‘DISTICKSTOFFMONOXID’ OR ‘DUŠICNI OKSIDUL  MESSER’ OR ‘ENTONOX’:tn OR ‘LYFJATVÍKÖFNUNAREFNISOXÍÐ’:tn OR ‘LÄÄKKEELLINEN ILOKAASU  AWO OY WOIKOSKI AB’:tn OR ‘MEDICAL NITROUS OXIDE AIR LIQUIDE’:tn OR ‘MEDICINSK  DINITROGENOXID’:tn OR ‘MEDICINSK LUSTGAS’:tn OR ‘MEDICINSKI DIDUŠIKOV OKSID MESSER’:tn  OR ‘MEDICINÁLNÍ OXID DUSNÝ’:tn OR ‘MEDICĪNISKAIS SLĀPEKĻA OKSIDULS, SAŠĶIDRINĀTAIS’:tn  OR ‘MEDISCH DISTIKSTOFOXIDE AIR LIQUIDE SANTÉ INTERNATIONAL’:tn OR ‘MEDISCH LACHGAS’:tn  OR ‘MEDISCHE DISTIKSTOFOXIDE MESSER BELGIUM’:tn OR ‘MEDISINSK LYSTGASS’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 260/368   ‘MEDIZINISCHES DISTIKSTOFFOXID AIR LIQUIDE SANTÉ INTERNATIONAL’:tn OR ‘NIONTIX’:tn OR  ‘NITROUS OXIDE’:tn OR ‘PODTLENEK AZOTU MEDYCZNY’:tn OR ‘PROTOXID DE AZOT MESSER’:tn OR  ‘STICKOXYDUL’:tn OR ‘DISTICKSTOFFMONOXID’:tn OR ‘NITROUS OXIDE’:tn OR ‘STICKOXYDUL’:tn  AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR  misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp  OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   254.  Linezolid   ‘LINEZOLID’ OR ‘LINEZOLIDA’ OR ‘LINEZOLIDUM’ OR ‘LINEZOLIDA’ OR ‘LINEZOLĪDA’ OR ‘LINEZOLIDU’  OR ‘LINEZOLĪDA’ OR ‘LINEZOLIDO’ OR ‘LINEZOLIDUM’ OR ‘LINÉZOLIDE’ OR ‘LINETSOLIDIA’ OR  ‘LINESOLIIDI’ OR ‘LINEZOLIDUM’ OR ‘ANOZILAD’:tn OR ‘ANTIZOLID’:tn OR ‘DILIZOLEN’:tn OR  ‘GRAMPOLID’:tn OR ‘GRAMPOSIMIDE’:tn OR ‘LIDOBACT’:tn OR ‘LINEURLUB’:tn OR ‘LINOZID’:tn OR  ‘LINXYD’:tn OR ‘LIZOLIDEN’:tn OR ‘LIZOX’:tn OR ‘LYNVOX’:tn OR ‘NATLINEZ’:tn OR ‘PNEUMOLID’:tn  OR ‘SYNZOLID’:tn OR ‘TANTURB’:tn OR ‘ZIPLEMOL’:tn OR ‘ZOLIC’:tn OR ‘ZOLIGRAM’:tn OR  ‘ZOLINID’:tn OR ‘ZYVOX’:tn OR ‘ZYVOXID’:tn OR ‘ZYVOX’:tn OR ‘ZYVOXAM’:tn OR ‘ZYVOXID’:tn AND  ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti  OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 261/368   255.  Lovastatin   ‘LOVASTATIN’ OR ‘LOVASTATÍN’ OR ‘LOVASTATINĂ’ OR ‘LOVASTATINA’ OR ‘LOVASTATINUM’ OR  ‘LOVASTATINE’ OR ‘LOVASTATINA’ OR ‘COLESVIR’:tn OR ‘HOLETAR’:tn OR ‘LIPDAUNE’:tn OR  ‘LIPIDLESS’:tn OR ‘LIPOPRES’:tn OR ‘LIPROX’:tn OR ‘LIPUS’:tn OR ‘LOMAR’:tn OR ‘LOSTIN’:tn OR ‘LOV  ASTIN’:tn OR ‘LOVABETA’:tn OR ‘LOVACODAN’:tn OR ‘LOVADURA’:tn OR ‘LOVAHEXAL’:tn OR  ‘LOVAREM’:tn OR ‘LOVASTAD’:tn OR ‘LOVASTEROL’:tn OR ‘LOVASYNT’:tn OR ‘LOVATEX’:tn OR  ‘LOVATOP’:tn OR ‘LOVINACOR’:tn OR ‘MEDOSTATIN’:tn OR ‘MEDOVASCIN’:tn OR ‘MEVACOR’:tn OR  ‘MEVASTIN’:tn OR ‘NERGADAN’:tn OR ‘REXTAT’:tn OR ‘TAUCOR’:tn OR ‘TAVACOR’:tn OR ‘VIKING’:tn  OR ‘ALTOCOR’:tn OR ‘ALTOPREV’:tn OR ‘LOVASTATIN’:tn OR ‘LIPOVAS’:tn OR ‘LOSTATIN’:tn OR  ‘LOVACHOL’:tn OR ‘LOVASTATIN’:tn OR ‘LOVASTATINA’:tn OR ‘MEDOSTATIN’:tn OR ‘MEVACOR’:tn OR  ‘MEVINACOR’:tn OR ‘MEVLOR’:tn OR ‘MONALESS’:tn OR ‘TAVACOR’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   256.  Sulpiride   ‘SULPIRIDE’ OR ‘SULPIRID’ OR ‘SULPIRYD’ OR ‘SULPIRĪDS’ OR ‘SULPIRIDUM’ OR ‘SZULPIRID’ OR  ‘SULPIRIID’ OR ‘SULPIRIDA’ OR ‘ARMINOL’:tn OR ‘BETAMAKS’:tn OR ‘CHAMPIONYL’:tn OR  ‘DARLETON’:tn OR ‘DEPRAL’:tn OR ‘DEVODIL’:tn OR ‘DOBREN’:tn OR ‘DOGMATIL’:tn OR  ‘DOGMATYL’:tn OR ‘DOLMATIL’:tn OR ‘EGLONYL’:tn OR ‘GUASTIL’:tn OR ‘LEVAIR’:tn OR ‘LEVOBREN’:tn  OR ‘LEVOGASTROL’:tn OR ‘LEVOPRAID’:tn OR ‘LEVOSULPIRIDE’:tn OR ‘MERESA FORTE’:tn OR  ‘MERESASUL’:tn OR ‘NONESTON’:tn OR ‘NUFAROL’:tn OR ‘PAUSEDAL’:tn OR ‘PROSULPIN’:tn OR  ‘PSICOCEN’:tn OR ‘SULPIREN’:tn OR ‘SULPIRIDE’:tn OR ‘SULPIROL’:tn OR ‘SULPIVERT’:tn OR  ‘SULPOR’:tn OR ‘SUPRIUM’:tn OR ‘SYNEDIL’:tn OR ‘VERTIGO -MERESA’:tn OR ‘VERTIGO -NEOGAMA’:tn  OR ‘ЛЕВИД / LEVIDE’:tn OR ‘ABILIT’:tn OR ‘BETAMAC’:tn OR ‘BETAMAKS’:tn OR ‘COOLSPAN’:tn OR  ‘DISLEP’:tn OR ‘DOGMATIL’:tn OR ‘DOGMATYL’:tn OR ‘EGLONIL’:tn OR ‘EGLONYL’:tn OR ‘EQUILID’:tn  OR ‘ESPIRIDE’:tn OR ‘KEITYL’:tn OR ‘LEBOPRIDE’:tn OR ‘LEVOBREN’:tn OR ‘LEVOPRAID’:tn OR  ‘MARGENOL’:tn OR ‘MIRADOL’:tn OR ‘MODAL’:tn OR ‘NEOGAMA’:tn OR ‘PROSULPIN’:tn OR ‘SULP’:tn  OR ‘SULPIRID’:tn OR ‘SULPIRIDE’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 262/368   terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   257.  Tetracycline   ‘TETRACYCLINE ’ OR ‘TETRACYKLIN’ OR ‘TETRACYCLINUM’ OR ‘TÉTRACYCLINE’ OR ‘TETRACICLINA’ OR  ‘AMBRAMICINA’:tn OR ‘APOCYCLIN’:tn OR ‘AUREOCORT’:tn OR ‘AUREOMICINA’:tn OR ‘AUREOMIX’:tn  OR ‘AUREOMYCINE’:tn OR ‘CHLOROCYCLINUM’:tn OR ‘COLBIOCIN’:tn OR ‘ECONOMYCIN’:tn OR  ‘EPICUTANTEST -TROLAB D2416’:tn OR ‘GEONISTIN’:tn OR ‘IMEX’:tn OR ‘MEDOCYCLINE’:tn OR  ‘MUVITO’:tn OR ‘MYSTECLIN’:tn OR ‘OFTALMOLOSA CUSI AUREOMICINA’:tn OR ‘ORICYCLIN’:tn OR  ‘OXYMYCIN’:tn OR ‘OXYTETRACYCLIN’:tn OR ‘OXYTETRACYCLINE’:tn OR ‘PENSULVIT’:tn OR  ‘POLCORTOLON TC’:tn OR ‘TEFILIN’:tn OR ‘TERRAMICINA’:tn OR ‘TERRAMYCIN + POLYMYXIN B’:tn OR  ‘TERRAMYCIN W. POLYMYXIN’:tn OR ‘TERRAMYCIN -POLYMYXIN B’:tn OR ‘TERRAMYCINE +  POLYMYXINE B’:tn OR ‘TERRICIL’:tn OR ‘TETRAC’:tn OR ‘TETRACICLINA’:tn OR ‘TETRACYCLIN’:tn OR  ‘TETRACYCLINE’:tn OR ‘TETRACYCLINHYDROCHLORID’:tn OR ‘TETRALYSAL’:tn OR ‘TETRAN’:tn OR  ‘TRACYCLIN’:tn OR ‘TROFALGON’:tn OR ‘TROLAB E2306’:tn OR ‘ACHROMYCIN’:tn OR  ‘AUREOMICINA’:tn OR ‘AUREOMYCIN’:tn OR ‘CHLORTRALIM’:tn OR ‘CLINIMYCIN’:tn OR  ‘MYSTECLIN’:tn OR ‘NOVO -TETRA’:tn OR ‘OXYPAN’:tn OR ‘POSICYCLINE’:tn OR ‘SUMYCIN’:tn OR  ‘TEFILIN’:tn OR ‘TERRAMICINA’:tn OR ‘TERRAMYCIN’:tn OR ‘TERRAMYCIN -POLYMYXIN B’:tn OR  ‘TETRACYCLIN’:tn OR ‘TETRALYSAL’:tn OR ‘TETREX’:tn OR ‘TRIMOVATE’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 263/368   258.  Naratriptan   ‘NARATRIPTAN’ OR ‘NARATRIPTANUM’ OR ‘NARATRIPTAN’ OR ‘NARATRIPTÁN’ OR ‘NARATRIPTAN’ OR  ‘NARATRIPTANUM’ OR ‘CONTRAMIG’:tn OR ‘FORMIGRAN’:tn OR ‘MIGTAN’:tn OR ‘NACRALID’:tn OR  ‘NARAGRAN’:tn OR ‘NARAMIG’:tn OR ‘NARATRIPTAN’:tn OR ‘NARATRIPTANO’:tn OR ‘NARAVERG’:tn OR  ‘TRYMIGA’:tn OR ‘AMERGE’:tn OR ‘NARAMIG’:tn OR ‘NARATRIPTAN’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   259.  Phenylephrine   ‘PHENYLEPHRINE’ OR ‘3 -[(1R) -1-HYDROXY -2-METHYLAMINO -ETHYL]PHENOL’ OR ‘FENYLEFRIN’ OR  ‘PHENYLEPHRINUM’ OR ‘PHÉNYLÉPHRINE’ OR ‘FENILEFRINA’ OR ‘ACATAR ACTI FORM’:tn OR  ‘COLIRCUSI FENILEFRINA’:tn OR ‘DAVINEFRINA’:tn OR ‘DISNEUMON’:tn OR ‘ENVIL’:tn OR  ‘EPICUTANTEST -TROLAB D2414’:tn OR ‘FENEFRIN’:tn OR ‘FENYLEFRIN FENYLEFRIN ABCUR’:tn OR  ‘GLAUKO BICIRON’:tn OR ‘HEXARHUME’:tn OR ‘HEXARINE’:tn OR ‘HUMEX NOSNÍ KAPKY’:tn OR  ‘HUMOXAL’:tn OR ‘METAOXEDRIN’:tn OR ‘MINIMS PHENYLEPHRINE CHLORHYDRATE’:tn OR ‘MINIMS  PHENYLEPHRINE HYDROCHLORIDE’:tn OR ‘MINIMS PHENYLEPHRINHYDROCHLORID’:tn OR  ‘MOVIFLEX’:tn OR ‘MYDRIASERT’:tn OR ‘NASOMIXIN C.M.’:tn OR ‘NEO -SINEFRINA’:tn OR  ‘NEOSYNEPHRIN -POS’:tn OR ‘NEOSYNEPHRINE’:tn OR ‘NON -DROWSY SUDAFED CONGESTION  RELIEF’:tn OR ‘NTR’:tn OR ‘OFTAN METAOKSEDRIN’:tn OR ‘OPHTHALMO -EVERCIL’:tn OR ‘OTRIVIN  ALLERGIA’:tn OR ‘PAIDOTERÍN’:tn OR ‘PHENYLEPHRINE’:tn OR ‘RHINATHIOL ANTIRHINITIS’:tn OR  ‘RHINI -SAN’:tn OR ‘STEROFRIN’:tn OR ‘TROLAB E2414’:tn OR ‘VIBROCIL’:tn OR ‘VIBROCIL -S’:tn OR  ‘VIBROCILFEN’:tn OR ‘VISADRON’:tn OR ‘ZINCFRIN’:tn OR ‘4 WAY’:tn OR ‘4 -WAY FAST ACTING’:tn OR  ‘AK DILATE’:tn OR ‘ALBALON RELIEF’:tn OR ‘BRONCHOFEN’:tn OR ‘CARDEC’:tn OR ‘CERON’:tn OR  ‘DIOPHENYL -T’:tn OR ‘ED A -HIST’:tn OR ‘EFRIN’:tn OR ‘LITTLE NOSES DECONGESTANT’:tn OR  ‘LOHIST’:tn OR ‘MESATON’:tn OR ‘MOVIFLEX’:tn OR ‘MYDFRIN’:tn OR ‘MYDRIN -P’:tn OR ‘NASOHIST’:tn  OR ‘NASOMIXIN C.M.’:tn OR ‘NEO -SYNEPHRINE’:tn OR ‘NEO -SYNESIN’:tn OR ‘NEOSYNEPHRIN -POS’:tn  OR ‘NEOSYNEPHRINE’:tn OR ‘NEOSYNEPHRINE BADRIAL’:tn OR ‘NEOSYNESIN’:tn OR ‘NOHIST’:tn OR  ‘NOVAHISTINE DECONGESTANT’:tn OR ‘NYAL DECONGESTANT’:tn OR ‘PHENYLEPHRINE’:tn OR  ‘PREDNEFRIN FORTE’:tn OR ‘PREFRIN’:tn OR ‘PREPARATION H COOLING’:tn OR ‘SANDOL P’:tn OR  ‘SUDAFED PE’:tn OR ‘TRIAMINIC COLD AND ALLERGY’:tn OR ‘VIBROCIL’:tn OR ‘VICKS SINEX ULTRA  FINE MIST’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 264/368   'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   260.  Acarbose   ‘ACARBOSE’ OR ‘ACARBOSUM’ OR ‘ACARBOSA’ OR ‘ACARBAX’ OR ‘ACARBOSIO TECNIGEN TECNIMEDE’  OR ‘ACARBOSIO TECNIMEDE’ OR ‘ACARPHAGE’:tn OR ‘ADEKSA’:tn OR ‘AKARBOZA ‘:tn OR  ‘GLICOBASE’:tn OR ‘GLUCOBAY’:tn OR ‘GLUCOR’:tn OR ‘SYMROSE’:tn OR ‘ГЛЮКОБАЙ’:tn OR  ‘ACARBOSE’:tn OR ‘AGLUCOSE’:tn OR ‘ECLID’:tn OR ‘GLUCAR’:tn OR ‘GLUCOBAY’:tn OR ‘GLUCOR’:tn  OR ‘GLUMIDA’:tn OR ‘PRANDASE’:tn OR ‘PRECOSE’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   261.  Amitriptyline   ‘AMITRIPTYLINE’ OR ‘AMITRIPTYLIN’ OR ‘AMITRIPTILINA’ OR ‘AMITRIPTYLINUM’ OR ‘AMITRIPTILINA’  OR ‘AMITRIPTILINA’ OR ‘ADEPRIL’:tn OR ‘ADT’:tn OR ‘AMINEURIN’:tn OR ‘AMIROL’:tn OR  ‘AMITRIPTILINĂ’:tn OR ‘AMITRIPTYLINE’:tn OR ‘AMYZOL’:tn OR ‘DEPRELIO’:tn OR ‘DIAPATOL’:tn OR  ‘ELAVIL’:tn OR ‘EQUILIBRIN’:tn OR ‘KLOTRIPTYL’:tn OR ‘LAROXYL’:tn OR ‘LIMBITROL’:tn OR  ‘LIMBITRYL’:tn OR ‘MUTABON ANSIOLITICO’:tn OR ‘NOBRITOL’:tn OR ‘ORMAL’:tn OR ‘PERTRIPTYL’:tn  OR ‘PSYPHARM’:tn OR ‘REDOMEX’:tn OR ‘SAROTEN’:tn OR ‘SAROTEX’:tn OR ‘SEDANS’:tn OR  ‘SYNEUDON’:tn OR ‘TEPERIN’:tn OR ‘TRIPTAFEN’:tn OR ‘TRIPTIZOL’:tn OR ‘TRIPTYL’:tn OR  ‘TRYPTIZOL’:tn OR ‘ADEPRIL’:tn OR ‘ADT’:tn OR ‘AMINEURIN’:tn OR ‘AMIPLIN’:tn OR ‘AMIROL’:tn OR  ‘AMITRIP’:tn OR ‘AMITRIPTILIN’:tn OR ‘AMITRIPTYLIN’:tn OR ‘AMITRIPTYLINE’:tn OR ‘AMYTRIL’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 265/368   ‘AMYZOL’:tn OR ‘ANAPSIQUE’:tn OR ‘AMITRIPTYLINE’:tn OR ‘ELATROL’:tn OR ‘ELATROLET’:tn OR  ‘ELAVIL’:tn OR ‘ELIWEL’:tn OR ‘ENDEP’:tn OR ‘ETRAFON’:tn OR ‘LAROXYL’:tn OR ‘LENTIZOL’:tn OR  ‘LEVATE’:tn OR ‘LIMBATRIL’:tn OR ‘LIMBITROL’:tn OR ‘LIMBITRYL’:tn OR ‘MUTABON ANSIOLITICO’:tn  OR ‘NORMALN’:tn OR ‘NOVO -TRIPTYN’:tn OR ‘SAROTEN’:tn OR ‘SAROTEX’:tn OR ‘TREPILINE’:tn OR  ‘TRIAVIL’:tn OR ‘TRIPTA’:tn OR ‘TRIPTIZOL’:tn OR ‘TRIPTYL’:tn OR ‘TRIPTYLINE’:tn OR ‘TRYPTANOL’:tn  OR ‘TRYPTIZOL’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR  'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   262.  Retinol Acetate   ‘RETINOL ACETATE’ OR ‘VITAMIN A ACETATE’ OR ‘RETINYL ACETATE’ OR ‘ACETATE DE RETINOL’ OR  ‘RETINOLACETAT’ OR ‘ACETAT DE RETINOL’ OR ‘RETINOLO ACETATO’ OR ‘RETINOLACETAT’ OR  ‘RETINOL PALMITATE’ OR ‘RETINYL PALMITATE’ OR ‘RETINOL, HEXADECANOATE’ OR ‘RETINOL,  PALMITATO’ OR ‘VITAMIN A PALMITATE’ OR ‘AXEROPHTHOL PALMITATE’ OR ‘RETINYL  HEXADECANOATE’ OR ‘RETINOLPALMITAT’ OR ‘RETINOLPALMITÁT’ OR ‘PALMITAT DE RETINOL’ OR  ‘VITAMINA A PALMITAT’ OR ‘RETINOL,PALMITATO’ OR ‘PALMITATO DE VITAMINA A’ OR ‘PALMITATO DE  RETINOL’ OR ‘RETYNOLU PALMITYNIAN’ OR ‘RETINOLPALMITAT’ OR ‘RETINOLPALMITAAT’ OR  ‘RETINOLO PALMITATO’ OR ‘RETINOL PALMITATO’ OR ‘AXEROFTOLO PALMITATO’ OR ‘RETINÓL  PALMITAT’ OR ‘RETINOL -PALMITÁT’ OR ‘PALMITATE DE RÉTINOL’ OR ‘RETINOLIPALMITAATTINA’ OR  ‘PALMITATO DE VITAMINA A’ OR ‘RETINOL PALMITATO’ OR ‘RETINOL PALMITATE’ OR  ‘RETINOLPALMITAT’ OR ‘VITAMIN A PALMITAT’ OR ‘RETIONOLPALMITAT’ OR ‘RETINOL PALMITAT’ OR  ‘RETINOLPALMINAT’ OR ‘A -VITA’ OR ‘AD3 6000 I.E./2000 I.E. V 1 ML PERORALNE KAPLJICE EMULZIJA’  OR ‘AKSODERM’:tn OR ‘AKSODERM FORTE’:tn OR ‘AUGENSCHUTZ -KAPSELN’:tn OR ‘AUXINA A  MASIVA’:tn OR ‘AUXINA A+E’:tn OR ‘AXEROPHTHOL’:tn OR ‘BIOMINOL A HIDROSOLUBLE’:tn OR  ‘COLDASTOP’:tn OR ‘COLDASTOP NASEN -ÖL’:tn OR ‘DIAGRAN’:tn OR ‘ESCLEROBION’:tn OR  ‘EVITEX’:tn OR ‘FREKAVIT FETTLÖSLICH’:tn OR ‘HYPOTEARS’:tn OR ‘INFADOLAN’:tn OR ‘LISOLIPIN’:tn  OR ‘MAŚĆ Z WITAMINĄ A’:tn OR ‘MIDIUM’:tn OR ‘OCULOTECT’:tn OR ‘OCULOTECT GEL’:tn OR ‘OFTAN  A-PANT’:tn OR ‘OLEOVIT’:tn OR ‘POLI A B E’:tn OR ‘RINOCUSI VITAMINICO’:tn OR ‘RINOVITEX’:tn OR  ‘VIT A N’:tn OR ‘VITADRAL’:tn OR ‘VITAFLUID’:tn OR ‘VITAGEL’:tn OR ‘VITALIPID’:tn OR ‘VITALIPID  ADULT’:tn OR ‘VITALIPID ADULTI’:tn OR ‘VITALIPID ADULTOS’:tn OR ‘VITALIPID BAMBINI’:tn OR  ‘VITALIPID INFANT’:tn OR ‘VITALIPID INFANTIL’:tn OR ‘VITALIPID INFANTS’:tn OR ‘VITALIPID N’:tn  OR ‘VITALIPID N ADULT’:tn OR ‘VITALIPID N ADULTO’:tn OR ‘VITALIPID N INFANT’:tn OR ‘VITALIPID N  INFANTIL’:tn OR ‘VITALIPID NOVUM ADULT’:tn OR ‘VITALIPID NOVUM INFANT’:tn OR ‘VITALIPIDE  ADULTES’:tn OR ‘VITALIPIDE ENFANTS’:tn OR ‘VITALOPID NOVUM INFANT’:tn OR ‘VITAMIN A  JENAPHARM’:tn OR ‘VITAMIN A SLOVAKOFARMA’:tn OR ‘VITAMIN A+E’:tn OR ‘VITAMIN -A SAAR’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 266/368   ‘VITAMINA A’:tn OR ‘VITAMINE A NEPALM’:tn OR ‘VITAMINOFTALMINA A’:tn OR ‘VITAMINUM A’:tn OR  ‘VITAMINUM A + D3 HASCO’:tn OR ‘VITAMINUM A + D3 MEDANA’:tn OR ‘VITAMINUM A + E GAL’:tn  OR ‘VITAMINUM A GAL’:tn OR ‘VITAMINUM A HASCO’:tn OR ‘VITAMINUM A+E MEDANA’:tn OR  ‘VITAMINUM A+E SYNTEZA’:tn OR ‘VITAMURUINE’:tn OR ‘VITINTRA ADULT’:tn OR ‘VITINTRA  INFAN’:tn OR ‘VITLIPID N ADULT’:tn OR ‘VITLIPID N INFANT’:tn OR ‘ВИТАМИН А СОФАРМА’:tn OR  ‘ДЕАВИТ’:tn OR ‘ДЕФЛАМОЛ’:tn OR ‘ОКУЛОТЕКТ ГЕЛ’:tn OR ‘A & D OINTMENT’:tn OR ‘A + D’:tn OR  ‘AD-TIL’:tn OR ‘AD -VITAMIN’:tn OR ‘ADEROGIL’:tn OR ‘ADEROGIL D3’:tn OR ‘AEVIT’:tn OR ‘AQUASOL  A’:tn OR ‘AROVIT’:tn OR ‘DEAVIT’:tn OR ‘HYPOTEARS’:tn OR ‘OCULOTECT’:tn OR ‘POPON -S’:tn OR  ‘VITAGEL’:tn OR ‘VITALIPID’:tn OR ‘VITALIPID N INFANT’:tn OR ‘VITAMIN A BLACHE’:tn OR ‘VITAMINE  A’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   263.  Terazosin   ‘TERAZOSIN’ OR ‘TERAZOSINA’ OR ‘TERAZOSINUM’ OR ‘TERAZOSINA’ OR ‘TÉRAZOSINE’ OR  ‘TERAZOSINA’ OR ‘BENPH’:tn OR ‘DEFLOX’:tn OR ‘DYSALFA’:tn OR ‘EZOSINA’:tn OR ‘HEITRIN’:tn OR  ‘HYTRIN’:tn OR ‘HYTRINE’:tn OR ‘HYTRINEX’:tn OR ‘ITRIN’:tn OR ‘KORNAM’:tn OR ‘MAGNUROL’:tn OR  ‘MAYUL’:tn OR ‘SINALFA’:tn OR ‘TERA TAD’:tn OR ‘TERABLOCK’:tn OR ‘TERAFLUSS’:tn OR  ‘TERANAR’:tn OR ‘TERANAR INIT’:tn OR ‘TERAPROST’:tn OR ‘TERAZOFLO’:tn OR ‘TERAZOSAB’:tn OR  ‘TERAZOSIN’:tn OR ‘UNOPROST’:tn OR ‘URO -HYTRIN’:tn OR ‘UROCARD’:tn OR ‘URODIE’:tn OR  ‘UROFLO’:tn OR ‘UROFLUS’:tn OR ‘VICARD’:tn OR ‘ZAYASEL’:tn OR ‘DEFLOX’:tn OR ‘FLOTRIN’:tn OR  ‘HEITRIN’:tn OR ‘HYTRACIN’:tn OR ‘HYTRIN’:tn OR ‘HYTRINE’:tn OR ‘KORNAM’:tn OR ‘RATIO - TERAZOSIN’:tn OR ‘SETEGIS’:tn OR ‘SINALFA’:tn OR ‘TERAZOSIN’:tn OR ‘URODIE’:tn OR  ‘VASOMET’:tn OR ‘ZAYASEL’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 267/368   'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   264.  Ziprasidone   ‘ZIPRASIDONE’ OR ‘ZIPRASIDONA’ OR ‘ZIPRASIDÓNU’ OR ‘ZIPRASIDONA’ OR ‘ZIPRAZIDONO’ OR  ‘ZIPRAZIDONA’ OR ‘ZIPRASIDONUM’ OR ‘ZIPRAZIDON’ OR ‘ZIPRASIDONA’ OR ‘EMPREVAL’:tn OR  ‘GEODON’:tn OR ‘PRAMAXIMA 60 MG’:tn OR ‘PRAZIP’:tn OR ‘YPSILA’:tn OR ‘ZELDOX’:tn OR  ‘ZIPRAMYL’:tn OR ‘ZIPRASIDONE’:tn OR ‘ZIPSI’:tn OR ‘ZIPSILAN’:tn OR ‘ZIPWELL’:tn OR ‘ZIXADOX’:tn  OR ‘ZYPSILA’:tn OR ‘ZYPSILAN’:tn OR ‘GEODON’:tn OR ‘ZELDOX’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp  OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   265.  Clozapine   ‘CLOZAPINE’ OR ‘CLOZAPINA’ OR ‘KLOZAPĪNS’ OR ‘CLOZAPINUM’ OR ‘KLOZAPIN’ OR ‘KLOTSAPIINIA’  OR ‘KLOSAPIINI’ OR ‘CLOZAPINA’ OR ‘ΚΛΟΖΑΠΊΝΗ’ OR ‘CLOZABRAIN’:tn OR ‘CLOZALUX’:tn OR  ‘CLOZAREM’:tn OR ‘CLOZARIL’:tn OR ‘DENZAPINE’:tn OR ‘ELCRIT’:tn OR ‘FROIDIR’:tn OR  ‘KLOZAPOL’:tn OR ‘LANOLEPT’:tn OR ‘LEPONEX’:tn OR ‘NEMEA’:tn OR ‘OZAPIM’:tn OR ‘XENOPALAN’:tn  OR ‘ZAPONEX’:tn OR ‘ANZARIL’:tn OR ‘AZALEPTIN’:tn OR ‘CLOPIN ECO’:tn OR ‘CLOPINE’:tn OR  ‘CLOSASTENE’:tn OR ‘CLOZAPINA’:tn OR ‘CLOZARIL’:tn OR ‘DENZAPINE’:tn OR ‘FAZACLO’:tn OR  ‘LAPENAX’:tn OR ‘LEPONEX’:tn OR ‘LOZAPINE’:tn OR ‘SEQUAX’:tn OR ‘ZAPONEX’:tn AND ('adverse  drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR  'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 268/368   immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   266.  Flumazenil   ‘FLUMAZENIL’ OR ‘FLUMAZENILO’ OR ‘FLUMAZENILUM’ OR ‘FLUMAZENIL’ OR ‘ANEXATE’:tn OR  ‘DEMOXATE’:tn OR ‘FLUMEXAT’:tn OR ‘ФЛУМАЗЕНИЛ ФАРМАСЕЛЕКТ’:tn OR ‘ANEXAT’:tn OR  ‘ANEXATE’:tn OR ‘LANEXAT’:tn OR ‘ROMAZICON’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   267.  Glibenclamide   ‘GLIBENCLAMIDE’ OR ‘GLYBURIDE’ OR ‘GLYBENCLAMIDE’ OR ‘GLIBENCLAMIDA’ OR ‘GLIBENCLAMIDUM’  OR ‘GLIBENKLAMID’ OR ‘GLIBENCLAMIDA’ OR ‘ASUGRIN’:tn OR ‘CALABREN’:tn OR ‘DAONIL’:tn OR  ‘DEROCTYL’:tn OR ‘EUGLUCON’:tn OR ‘GILEMAL’:tn OR ‘GLIBEN’:tn OR ‘GLIBEN -CT’:tn OR  ‘GLIBENHEXAL’:tn OR ‘GLIBENKLAMID RECIP’:tn OR ‘GLIBESYN’:tn OR ‘GLIBORAL’:tn OR ‘GLIKEN’:tn  OR ‘GLITISOL’:tn OR ‘GLUCOBENE’:tn OR ‘HEMI -DAONIL’:tn OR ‘HEXAGLUCON’:tn OR ‘LIAMID’:tn OR  ‘MALIX’:tn OR ‘MANINIL’:tn OR ‘ГЛИБЕНКЛАМИД СОФАРМА’:tn OR ‘МАНИНИЛ’:tn OR ‘APO  GLYBURIDE’:tn OR ‘BENCLART’:tn OR ‘BENIL’:tn OR ‘BRATOGEN’:tn OR ‘DAMSEL’:tn OR ‘DAONIL’:tn  OR ‘DIABEN’:tn OR ‘DIABETA’:tn OR ‘EUGLUCON’:tn OR ‘GILEMAL’:tn OR ‘GLIBAMIDE’:tn OR  ‘GLIBEN’:tn OR ‘GLIBENKLAMID RECIP’:tn OR ‘GLIBESIFAR’:tn OR ‘GLIBEX’:tn OR ‘GLIDANIL’:tn OR  ‘GLIMEL’:tn OR ‘GLIMIDE’:tn OR ‘GLUBEN’:tn OR ‘GLUCOLON’:tn OR ‘GLYBURIDE’:tn OR  ‘GLYCOMIN’:tn OR ‘GLYNASE PRESTAB’:tn OR ‘MANINIL’:tn OR ‘MARGLEID’:tn OR ‘MICRONASE’:tn OR  ‘-GLYBE’:tn OR ‘OPEAMIN’:tn OR ‘PAMILCON’:tn OR ‘GLYBURIDE’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp  OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 269/368   'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   268.  Levonorgestrel   ‘LEVONORGESTREL’ OR ‘LEVONORGESTRELA’ OR ‘LEWONORGESTREL’ OR ‘LEVONORGESTRELA’ OR  ‘LEVONORGESTRELIO’ OR ‘LEVONORGESTRELUM’ OR ‘LÉVONORGESTREL’ OR ‘LEVONORGESTRELUM’  OR ‘AFTERNOR’:tn OR ‘APREG’:tn OR ‘BENILEXA’:tn OR ‘CHRONO’:tn OR ‘DONASERT’:tn OR  ‘EGIANTI’:tn OR ‘ELISTREL’:tn OR ‘ELZIETTE’:tn OR ‘EMERRES’:tn OR ‘EMPIL’:tn OR ‘ESCAPELLE’:tn  OR ‘FLEREE’:tn OR ‘FRIVELLE’:tn OR ‘HELIBONA’:tn OR ‘ISTERANDA’:tn OR ‘JADELLE’:tn OR  ‘JAYDESS’:tn OR ‘LAPIA ‘:tn OR ‘LEVIDON’:tn OR ‘LEVODONNA’:tn OR ‘LEVONELLE’:tn OR  ‘LEVONORARISTO’:tn OR ‘LEVOSERT’:tn OR ‘LUADEI’:tn OR ‘MICROLUT’:tn OR ‘MICROLUTON’:tn OR  ‘MICROVAL’:tn OR ‘MIREFFIK’:tn OR ‘MIRENA’:tn OR ‘NAVELA’:tn OR ‘NOPREGY’:tn OR  ‘NORGESTON’:tn OR ‘NORLEVO’:tn OR ‘NULSORA’:tn OR ‘PIDANA’:tn OR ‘POSTINOR’:tn OR ‘PREMPAK - C’:tn OR ‘RAMONNA’:tn OR ‘RIGESOFT’:tn OR ‘SCHERZA’:tn OR ‘STROMALIDAN’:tn OR ‘TOOMEE’:tn OR  ‘TRESOVELLE’:tn OR ‘UNOFEM’:tn OR ‘UPOSTELLE’:tn OR ‘VELAFAM’:tn OR ‘VIKELA’:tn OR  ‘ДЖЕЙДАС’:tn OR ‘ЛЕВОСЕРТ’:tn OR ‘МИРЕНА’:tn OR ‘РАМОНА’:tn OR ‘AFTERA’:tn OR ‘ESCAPELLE’:tn  OR ‘JADELLE’:tn OR ‘JAYDESS’:tn OR ‘LEVONELLE’:tn OR ‘LEVOSERT’:tn OR ‘MICROLUT’:tn OR  ‘MICROVAL’:tn OR ‘MIRENA’:tn OR ‘NEXT CHOICE’:tn OR ‘NORGESTON’:tn OR ‘NORLEVO’:tn OR  ‘NORPLANT’:tn OR ‘OPORTUNA’:tn OR ‘OPTION 2’:tn OR ‘PLAN B’:tn OR ‘POSTINOR’:tn OR ‘PREMPAK - C’:tn OR ‘SKYLA’:tn OR ‘TAKE ACTION’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 270/368   269.  Magnesium Sulfate   ‘MAGNESIUM SULFATE’ OR ‘MAGNESIUM SULPHATE’ OR ‘MAGNESII SULFAS’ OR ‘MAGNESIUM(+2)  CATION SULFATE’ OR ‘MAGNESIUMSULFAT’ OR ‘SULFATO DE MAGNÉSIO’ OR ‘SIARCZAN MAGNEZU’  OR ‘MAGNESIUMSULFAT’ OR ‘MAGNESIUMSULFAAT’ OR ‘MAGNESIUM SULFATE’ OR ‘MAGNIJA  SULFĀTS’ OR ‘MAGNIO SULFATAS’ OR ‘MAGNESII SULFAS’ OR ‘MAGNESIO SOLFATO’ OR ‘MAGNESÍUM  SÚLFAT’ OR ‘MAGNÉZIUM -SZULFÁT’ OR ‘MAGNÉSIUM, SULFATE DE’ OR ‘MAGNESIUM (SULFATE DE)’  OR ‘SULFATE DE MAGNESIE’ OR ‘MAGNESIUMSULFAATTI’ OR ‘SULFATO MAGNÉSICO’ OR ‘MAGNESIO,  SULFATO DE’ OR  ‘MAGNESIUMSULFAT’ OR ‘МАГНЕЗИЕВ СУЛФАТ’ OR ‘ANDREWS LIVER SALTS’:tn OR  ‘BASISSALBE’:tn OR ‘BITTERSALZ’:tn OR ‘CORMAGNESIN’:tn OR ‘DIASPORAL’:tn OR ‘EPSOM SALTS’:tn  OR ‘EZICLEN’:tn OR ‘F.X. PASSAGE SL’:tn OR ‘IZINOVA’:tn OR ‘KAOLOGEAIS’:tn OR ‘MAGNESII  SULFURICI’:tn OR ‘MAGNESIO SOLFATO’:tn OR ‘MAGNESIUM SULPHATE’:tn OR ‘MAGNESIUM  VERLA’:tn OR ‘MAGNESIUM -DIASPORAL PROTINA PHARMAZEUTISCHE’:tn OR ‘MAGNESIUMSULFAT’:tn  OR ‘MAGNEVEN’:tn OR ‘MAGNEZU SIARCZAN’:tn OR ‘(MAGNESII SULFAS HEPTAHYDRICUS FP)’:tn OR  ‘SYN. SÓL GORZKA’:tn OR ‘MAGNEZU SIARCZAN LABORATORIUM GALENOWE OLSZTYN’:tn OR  ‘MAGNEZU SIARCZAN SIEDMIOWODNY AFLOFARM’:tn OR ‘MAGNIJA SULFĀTS’:tn OR ‘MG 5 -SULFAT  AMP DROSSAPHARM’:tn OR ‘MG INRESA’:tn OR ‘OMEZELIS’:tn OR ‘PASSAGESALZ’:tn OR  ‘RETTERSPITZ ABFÜHRPULVER’:tn OR ‘SOLTRAN’:tn OR ‘SPASMAG’:tn OR ‘SULFATE DE MAGNESIUM  LAVOISIER’:tn OR ‘SULMETIN SIMPLE’:tn OR ‘VAGOSTABYL’:tn OR ‘ADDEX’:tn OR ‘CONCLYTE MG’:tn  OR ‘EPSOM SALTS’:tn OR ‘MAGNESIUM SULPHATE’:tn OR ‘MAGNESIUM VERLA’:tn OR ‘MAGSENT’:tn  OR ‘VAGOSTABYL’:tn OR ‘ZINVIT’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   270.  Octreotide   ‘OCTREOTIDE’ OR ‘OKTREOTID’ OR ‘OCTREOTIDO’ OR ‘OKTREOTID’ OR ‘OCTREOTIDE’ OR  ‘OCTREOTIDUM’ OR ‘OCTREOTIDE’ OR ‘OCTRÉOTIDE’ OR ‘OKTREOTIDI’ OR ‘OCTREOTIDA’ OR  ‘OCTREOTID’ OR ‘OCTREOTID’ OR ‘99MTC -TEKTROTYD’:tn OR ‘LONGASTATINA’:tn OR ‘OCTRAYNE’:tn  OR ‘OCTREOFLEX’:tn OR ‘OCTREOTIDE’:tn OR ‘OCTRETOTIDA HOSPIRA’:tn OR ‘OCTRIN’:tn OR  ‘OCTROFLEX’:tn OR ‘OKTIDEL’:tn OR ‘SANDOSTATIN’:tn OR ‘SANDOSTATINA’:tn OR  ‘SANDOSTATINE’:tn OR ‘SIROCTID’:tn OR ‘TREOJECT’:tn OR ‘ОКТРЕОТИД CSC’:tn OR  ‘OCTREOTIDE’:tn OR ‘SANDOSTATIN’:tn OR ‘SANDOSTATINA’:tn OR ‘SANDOSTATINE’:tn AND  ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 271/368   OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   271.  Propofol   ‘PROPOFOL’ OR ‘DISOPROFOL’ OR ‘2,6 -DIPROPAN -2-YLPHENOL’ OR ‘PROPOFOLS’ OR ‘PROPOFOLA’ OR  ‘PROPOFOLIS’ OR ‘PROPOFOLUM’ OR ‘PROPOFÓIL’ OR ‘PROPOFOLI’ OR ‘PROPOFOLIA’ OR ‘PROPOFOOL’  OR ‘PROPOFOOLI’ OR ‘ANESIA’:tn OR ‘ANVAR’:tn OR ‘EFEKAL’:tn OR ‘PROPOVEN’:tn OR ‘NYLOSED’:tn  OR ‘PLOFED’:tn OR ‘PROFAST’:tn OR ‘PROFOFOL’:tn OR ‘PROFOL’:tn OR ‘PROPOLIPID’:tn OR  ‘PROPOVEN’:tn OR ‘RAPIVA’:tn OR ‘RECOFOL’:tn OR ‘RIPOL’:tn OR ‘SPIVA’:tn OR ‘DIPRIVAN’:tn OR  ‘DISOPRIVAN’:tn OR ‘FRESOFOL’:tn OR ‘LIPURO’:tn OR ‘POFOL’:tn OR ‘PROPOFOL -LIPURO’:tn OR  ‘PROVIVE’:tn OR ‘RECOFOL’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   272.  Vinorelbine   ‘VINORELBINE’ OR ‘VINORELBIN’ OR ‘VINORELBÍN’ OR ‘VINORELBINA’ OR ‘WINORELBINA’ OR  ‘VINORELBIN’ OR ‘VINORELBĪNA’ OR ‘VINORELBINUM’ OR ‘VINORELBINE’ OR ‘VINORELBIINI’ OR  ‘VINORELBINA’ OR ‘VINORELBIN’ OR ‘VINORELBIN’ OR ‘VINORELBIN’ OR ‘VINORELBINUM’ OR  ‘EBERELBIN’:tn OR ‘EUROVINORELBIN’:tn OR ‘LOBXCAP’:tn OR ‘NAV10INJ’:tn OR ‘NAVELBINE’:tn OR  ‘NAVIN’:tn OR ‘NAVIREL’:tn OR ‘NEOCITEC’:tn OR ‘RIBORELBIN’:tn OR ‘TELBINE’:tn OR ‘RELBINE’:tn  OR ‘VINOLBIN’:tn OR ‘VINORAYNE’:tn OR ‘VINORELBIN’:tn OR ‘VINORELSIN’:tn OR ‘VINORRELBINA’:tn     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 272/368   OR ‘VISERA’:tn OR ‘VORELBIN’:tn OR ‘ZAOLIN’:tn OR ‘EUNADES’:tn OR ‘NAVELBINE’:tn OR  ‘NEOCITEC’:tn OR ‘ONCOBINE’:tn OR ‘ROZEUS’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim     273.  Etoposide   ‘ETOPOSIDE’ OR ‘ETOPOSID’ OR ‘ETOPOSID’ OR ‘ETOPOZID’ OR ‘ETOPOZIDĂ’ OR ‘ETOPOSIDO’ OR  ‘ETOPOSIDE’ OR ‘ETOPOSIDUM’ OR ‘ÉTOPOSIDE’ OR ‘ETOPOSIDE’ OR ‘ETOPOSIDIA’ OR ‘ETOPOSIDI’  OR ‘ETOPOSIID’ OR ‘ETOPÓSIDO’ OR ‘ETOPOSID’ OR ‘ETOPOSID’ OR ‘CELLTOP’ OR ‘EBEPOSID’ OR  ‘EPOSID’ OR ‘EPOSIN’ OR ‘ETO -CELL’ OR ‘ETOBION’ OR ‘ETOMEDAC’ OR ‘ETOPOPHOS’ OR ‘ETOPOSID’  OR ‘ETOPOSIDE’ OR ‘LASTET’:tn OR ‘NEOPOSID’:tn OR ‘RIBOPOSID’:tn OR ‘SINTOPOZID’:tn OR  ‘TOPOSIN’:tn OR ‘VEPESID’:tn OR ‘VEPESIDE’:tn OR ‘CELLTOP’:tn OR ‘EPOSIN’:tn OR ‘ETO CS’:tn OR  ‘ETOPOPHOS’:tn OR ‘ETOPOSID’:tn OR ‘ETOPOSIDE’:tn OR ‘EXITOP’:tn OR ‘FYTOSID’:tn OR  ‘LASTET’:tn OR ‘SINTOPOZID’:tn OR ‘ETOPO’:tn OR ‘TOPOSAR’:tn OR ‘TOPOSIN’:tn OR ‘VEPESID’:tn  OR ‘VEPESIDE’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR  'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 273/368   274.  Oxcarbazepine   ‘OXCARBAZEPINE’ OR ‘OXCARBAZEPINA’ OR ‘OXCARBAZEPIN’ OR ‘OXKARBAZEPIN’ OR  ‘OXCARBAZEPINUM’ OR ‘OXCARBAZÉPINE’ OR ‘OKSKARBATSEPIINIA’ OR ‘OXCARBAZEPINA’ OR  ‘OXCARBAZEPIN’ OR ‘APYDAN’:tn OR ‘CARZENIO’:tn OR ‘EPILEXTER’:tn OR ‘EPILFARMO’:tn OR  ‘KARBAGEN’:tn OR ‘KARBOSTAD’:tn OR ‘KARBOX’:tn OR ‘LANCYL’:tn OR ‘OKSKARBAZEPIN’:tn OR  ‘OXALEPT’:tn OR ‘OXCARBAZEPINE’:tn OR ‘OXCAR’:tn OR ‘OXEPILAX’:tn OR ‘PROAXEN’:tn OR  ‘LEPTIN’:tn OR ‘TIMOX’:tn OR ‘TOLEP’:tn OR ‘TRILEPTAL’:tn OR ‘TRILPETAL’:tn OR ‘ZIGABAL’:tn OR  ‘APYDAN’:tn OR ‘OXCARB’:tn OR ‘OXCARBAZEPINE’:tn OR ‘OXETOL’:tn OR ‘TRILEPTAL’:tn OR  ‘TRILEPTIN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   275.  Propanolol Hydrochloride   ‘PROPRANOLOL HYDROCHLORIDE’ OR ‘PROPRANOLOLA HIDROHLORĪDS’ OR ‘1 -NAPHTHALEN -1-YLOXY - 3-(PROPAN -2-YLAMINO)PROPAN -2-OL HYDROCHLORIDE’ OR ‘CORIDRATO DE PROPRANOLOL’ OR  ‘PROPRANOLOLU CHLOROWODOREK’ OR ‘PROPRANOLOLHYDROCHLORIDE’ OR ‘PROPRANOLOLA  HIDROHLORĪDS’ OR ‘PROPRANOLOLI HYDROCHLORIDUM’ OR ‘PROPRANOLOL, CHLORHYDRATE DE’ OR  ‘CHLORHYDRATE DE PROPRANOLOL’ OR ‘PROPRANOLOLIHYDROKLORIDIA’ OR ‘HIDROCLORURO DE  PROPRANOLOL’:tn OR ‘PROPRANOLOLI HYDROCHLORIDUM’:tn OR ‘PROPRANOLOLHYDROCHLORID’:tn  OR ‘ANAPRILĪNS’:tn OR ‘ANGILOL’:tn OR ‘BEDRANOL’:tn OR ‘BETA -PROGRANE’:tn OR ‘DOCIRETIC’:tn  OR ‘DOCITON’:tn OR ‘EMFORAL’:tn OR ‘PROGRANE’:tn OR ‘HEMANGIOL’:tn OR ‘HUMA -PRONOL’:tn OR  ‘KARNODYL’:tn OR ‘OBSIDAN’:tn OR ‘PERTENSO’:tn OR ‘PRANOLOL’:tn OR ‘PROPRA’:tn OR  ‘PROPRAL’:tn OR ‘PROPRANOLOL’:tn OR ‘SYPROL’:tn OR ‘AIDEITOROL’:tn OR ‘AVLOCARDYL’:tn OR  ‘BEDRANOL’:tn OR ‘BETALOL’:tn OR ‘CORBETA’:tn OR ‘DERALIN’:tn OR ‘DIDERAL’:tn OR  ‘DOCIRETIC’:tn OR ‘DOCITON’:tn OR ‘HERZBASE’:tn OR ‘HIPERNOLOL’:tn OR ‘INDERAL’:tn OR  ‘INDERAL -LA 80’:tn OR ‘INDERALICI’:tn OR ‘INNOPRAN XL’:tn OR ‘MENTORIES’:tn OR ‘NOVO - PRANOL’:tn OR ‘OBSIDAN’:tn OR ‘PRANOL’:tn OR ‘PRANOLOL’:tn OR ‘PROLOL’:tn OR ‘PROPRAL’:tn OR  ‘PUR-BLOKA’:tn OR ‘REBATEN’:tn OR ‘SLOW DERALIN’:tn OR ‘SORASILOL’:tn OR ‘TIPERAL’:tn AND  ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti  OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 274/368   error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   276.  Alfaclcidol   ‘ALFACALCIDOL’ OR ‘1Α -HYDROXYVITAMIN D3’ OR ‘1Α -HYDROXYCHOLECALCIFEROL’ OR ‘1ALPHA - HYDROXY -VITAMIN D3’ OR ‘1ALPHA -HYDROXYCHOLECALCIFEROL’ OR ‘1ALPHA -HYDROXYVITAMIN D3’  OR ‘ALFAKALCIDOL’ OR ‘ALFACALCIDOL’ OR ‘ALFACALCIDOL’ OR ‘ALFACALCIDOLUM’ OR  ‘ALFAKALCIDOL’ OR ‘ALFAKALSIDOL’ OR ‘ALFACALCIDOL’ OR ‘ALFAKALCIDOLIO’ OR  ‘ALFACALCIDOLUM’ OR ‘ALFACALCIDOLO’ OR ‘ALFAKALSÍDÓL’ OR ‘ALFACALCIDOL’ OR  ‘ALFAKALSIDOLI’ OR ‘ALFACALCIDOL’ OR ‘ALPHACALCIDOL’ OR ‘ΑΛΦΑΚΑΛΣΙΔΟΛΗ’ OR ‘ALFACALCIDOL’  OR ‘ALFACALCIDOL’ OR ‘A -OSTIN -D3’ OR ‘ALESTOPOR’:tn OR ‘ALFACALCIDOL’:tn OR ‘ALFAD’:tn OR  ‘ALFADIOL’:tn OR ‘ALPADIOL’:tn OR ‘ALPHA - PLUS’:tn OR ‘ALPHA -PLUS’:tn OR ‘ALPHACAL’:tn OR  ‘ALPHAZOL’:tn OR ‘AXELANOL’:tn OR ‘BONDIOL’:tn OR ‘CALCIDROPS’:tn OR ‘CALCULUS’:tn OR  ‘CALFADOL’:tn OR ‘DEDIOL’:tn OR ‘DERIL’:tn OR ‘DISEON’:tn OR ‘DISERINAL’:tn OR ‘DOSS’:tn OR  ‘EINSALPHA’:tn OR ‘EMARFEN’:tn OR ‘ETALPHA’:tn OR ‘GENIAD’:tn OR ‘LOSEFAN’:tn OR ‘MEGA - ALPHA’:tn OR ‘ONE -ALPHA’:tn OR ‘OSTEOVILE’:tn OR ‘OSTIDIL  D3’:tn OR ‘SUNDIOL’:tn OR ‘UN  ALFA’:tn OR ‘UN -ALFA’:tn OR ‘V -D-BONE’:tn OR ‘VITOCALCIT’:tn OR ‘ALCADOL’:tn OR  ‘ALFACALCIDO’:tn OR ‘ALFAROL’:tn OR ‘ALFASULY’:tn OR ‘ALSIODOL’:tn OR ‘AROWTOHL’:tn OR ‘BON - ONE’:tn OR ‘CALCITAMIN’:tn OR ‘CALFALEAD’:tn OR ‘CALFINA’:tn OR ‘D -ALFA’:tn OR ‘DOSS’:tn OR  ‘ERSIBON’:tn OR ‘ETALPHA’:tn OR ‘ONE -ALPHA’:tn OR ‘ONEALFA’:tn OR ‘PLATIBIT’:tn OR  ‘POROSAVE’:tn OR ‘REMODELLIN’:tn OR ‘TOYOFAROL’:tn OR ‘UN -ALFA’:tn OR ‘VITAMILO -ALFA’:tn OR  ‘WARKMIN’:tn OR ‘ALCADOL’:tn OR ‘ALFACALCIDO’:tn OR ‘ALFAROL’:tn OR ‘ALFASULY’:tn OR  ‘ALSIODOL’:tn OR ‘AROWTOHL’:tn OR ‘BON -ONE’:tn OR ‘CALCITAMIN’:tn OR ‘CALFALEAD’:tn OR  ‘CALFINA’:tn OR ‘D -ALFA’:tn OR ‘DOSS’:tn OR ‘ERSIBON’:tn OR ‘ETALPHA’:tn OR ‘ONE -ALPHA’:tn OR  ‘ONEALFA’:tn OR ‘PLATIBIT’:tn OR ‘POROSAVE’:tn OR ‘REMODELLIN’:tn OR ‘TOYOFAROL’:tn OR ‘UN - ALFA’:tn OR ‘VITAMILO -ALFA’:tn OR ‘WARKMIN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 275/368   OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   277.  Flutamide   ‘FLUTAMIDE’ OR ‘FLUTAMID’ OR ‘FLUTAMIDUM’ OR ‘FLUTAMID’ OR ‘FLUTAMIDĂ’ OR ‘FLUTAMIDA’ OR  ‘FLUTAMID’ OR ‘FLUTAMIDE’ OR ‘FLUTAMĪDA’ OR ‘FLUTAMIDUM’ OR ‘FLUTAMIDE’ OR ‘FLUTAMID’ OR  ‘FLUTAMID’ OR ‘FLUTAMIDE’ OR ‘FLUTAMIDE’ OR ‘FLUTAMIDA’ OR ‘FLUTAMID’ OR ‘FLUTAM’:tn OR  ‘CHIMAX’:tn OR ‘DROGENIL’:tn OR ‘ELBAT’:tn OR ‘EULEXIN’:tn OR ‘EULEXINE’:tn OR ‘FLUMID’:tn OR  ‘FLUPROSIN’:tn OR ‘FLUTA -CELL’:tn OR ‘FLUTA -GRY’:tn OR ‘FLUTAM’:tn OR ‘FLUTAMIDA’:tn OR  ‘FLUTAN’:tn OR ‘FLUTAPLEX’:tn OR ‘FLUTASIN’:tn OR ‘FLUTASTAD’:tn OR ‘GRISETIN’:tn OR  ‘PROFAMID’:tn OR ‘PROSNEO’:tn OR ‘PROSTACUR’:tn OR ‘PROSTADIREX’:tn OR ‘PROSTICA’:tn OR  ‘FLUTAMIDE’:tn OR ‘DROGENIL’:tn OR ‘EUFLEX’:tn OR ‘EULEXIN’:tn OR ‘FLUCINOM’:tn OR ‘FLUMED’:tn  OR ‘FLUTACAN’:tn OR ‘FLUTADURA’:tn OR ‘FLUTAMID’:tn OR ‘FLUTAMIDE’:tn OR ‘FLUTAMIN’:tn OR  ‘FUGEREL’:tn OR ‘GRISETIN’:tn OR ‘ODYNE’:tn OR ‘PROSTACUR’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp  OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   278.  Fosmycin   ‘FOSFOMYCIN’ OR ‘(3 -METHYLOXIRAN -2-YL)PHOSPHONIC ACID’ OR ‘PHOSPHOMYCIN’ OR  ‘PHOSPHONOMYCIN’ OR ‘FOSFOMICINA’ OR ‘FOSFOMYCYNA’ OR ‘FOSFOMYCINE’ OR ‘FOSFOMYCINUM’  OR ‘FOSFOMICINA’ OR ‘FOSFOMYCINE’ OR ‘FOSFOMICINA’ OR ‘AFASTURAL’:tn OR ‘BERNY’:tn OR  ‘CYSTIDOSE’:tn OR ‘DANIFOS’:tn OR ‘FOMICYT’:tn OR ‘FOSFOCIN’:tn OR ‘FOSFOCINE IV’:tn OR  ‘FOSFOMICINA’:tn OR ‘FOSFOMOL’:tn OR ‘FOSFOMYCIN’:tn OR ‘FOSFOMYCINE’:tn OR  ‘FOSFOPHARM’:tn OR ‘FOSFURO’:tn OR ‘FOSMETAMOL’:tn OR ‘MONURAL’:tn OR ‘MONURIL’:tn OR  ‘RAPIDNORM’:tn OR ‘TRACTURYL’:tn OR ‘TROMETAN’:tn OR ‘URIDOZ’:tn OR ‘URINEX’:tn OR  ‘UROFOS’:tn OR ‘UROSEPTIC’:tn OR ‘FOROCYLE S’:tn OR ‘FOSFOCIL’:tn OR ‘FOSFOCIN’:tn OR  ‘FOSFOMIN’:tn OR ‘FOSFOMYCIN’:tn OR ‘FOSFOMYCINE’:tn OR ‘FOSMICIN’:tn OR ‘HAROSMIN’:tn OR  ‘MONURAL’:tn OR ‘MONURIL’:tn OR ‘MONUROL’:tn OR ‘URINEX’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp  OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 276/368   terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   279.  Leuprorelin   ‘LEUPRORELIN’ OR ‘LEUPROLIDE’ OR ‘LEUPRORELINUM’ OR ‘LEUPRORÉLINE’ OR ‘LEUPRORELINA’ OR  ‘DARONDA’:tn OR ‘DEPO -ELIGARD’:tn OR ‘ELIGARD’:tn OR ‘ELITYRAN’:tn OR ‘ENANTON’:tn OR  ‘ENANTONE’:tn OR ‘GINECRIN DEPOT’:tn OR ‘LEPTOPROL’:tn OR ‘LERIN’:tn OR ‘LEUPREX’:tn OR  ‘LEUPRO’:tn OR ‘LEUPROL’:tn OR ‘LEUPRONE’:tn OR ‘LEUPRORELIN’:tn OR ‘LEUPRORELINA  TRIMESTRAL’:tn OR ‘LEUPRORELINE’:tn OR ‘LEUPROSTIN’:tn OR ‘LUCRIN’:tn OR ‘LUTRATE’:tn OR  ‘POLITRATE’:tn OR ‘PROCREN’:tn OR ‘PROCRIN’:tn OR ‘PROSTAPLANT’:tn OR ‘SIXANTONE’:tn OR  ‘TRENANTONE’:tn OR ‘ELIGARD’:tn OR ‘ENANTON’:tn OR ‘ENANTONE’:tn OR ‘LECTRUM’:tn OR  ‘LERIN’:tn OR ‘LEUPLIN’:tn OR ‘LORELIN’:tn OR ‘LUCRIN’:tn OR ‘LUPANETA’:tn OR ‘LUPRON’:tn OR  ‘PROCRIN’:tn OR ‘PROSTAP’:tn OR ‘TRENANTONE’:tn OR ‘VIADUR’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp  OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   280.  Azathioprine   ‘AZATHIOPRINE’ OR ‘AZATIOPRIN’ OR ‘AZATIOPRINA’ OR ‘AZATIOPRYNA’ OR ‘AZATIOPRIN’ OR  ‘AZATHIOPRINUM’ OR ‘AZATHIOPRINE’ OR ‘ATSATIOPRIINI’ OR ‘AZATIOPRINA’ OR ‘AZATHIOPRIN’ OR  ‘AZATHIOPRIN’ OR ‘AZATHIOPRINUM’ OR ‘AZA -Q’:tn OR ‘AZAFALK’:tn OR ‘AZAFOR’:tn OR  ‘AZAIMUN’:tn OR ‘AZAMEDAC’:tn OR ‘AZAMUN’:tn OR ‘AZAPRESS’:tn OR ‘AZATHIODURA’:tn OR  ‘AZATHIOPRIN’:tn OR ‘AZATHIOPRINE’:tn OR ‘AZATIOPRINA’:tn OR ‘AZATIOPRINE MEDAC’:tn OR  ‘IMMUNOPRIN’:tn OR ‘IMUGER’:tn OR ‘IMUPRIN’:tn OR ‘IMURAN’:tn OR ‘IMUREK’:tn OR ‘IMUREL’:tn OR  ‘ZYTRIM’:tn OR ‘AZATHIOPRINE’:tn OR ‘AZAFALK’:tn OR ‘AZAIMUN’:tn OR ‘AZAMUN’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 277/368   ‘AZANIN’:tn OR ‘AZAPRESS’:tn OR ‘AZAPRINE’:tn OR ‘AZAREK’:tn OR ‘AZASAN’:tn OR  ‘AZATHIOPRIN’:tn OR ‘AZATHIOPRINE’:tn OR ‘AZATIOPRINA’:tn OR ‘IMMUNOPRIN’:tn OR ‘IMUNEN’:tn  OR ‘IMURAN’:tn OR ‘IMUREK’:tn OR ‘IMUREL’:tn OR ‘IMUSSUPREX’:tn OR ‘THIOPRINE’:tn AND  ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti  OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   281.  Co-Trimoxazole   ‘CO-TRIMOXAZOLE’ OR ‘COTRIMOXAZOL’ OR ‘BACTRIM’ OR ‘BACTRIMEL’ OR ‘BERLOCID’ OR  ‘BISEPTOL’ OR ‘BISEPTOL 960’ OR ‘BITRIM’ OR ‘CO -TRIM’ OR ‘CO -TRIMOXAZOL’ OR ‘CO - TRIMOXAZOLE’ OR ‘COTRIM’ OR ‘COTRIMOXAZOL’ OR ‘DEPRIM’:tn OR ‘EUSAPRIM’:tn OR ‘FECTRIM’:tn  OR ‘KEPINOL’:tn OR ‘NOFLUX’:tn OR ‘NOTLUX’:tn OR ‘PRIMOTREN’:tn OR ‘SEPTRIN’:tn OR  ‘SIGAPRIM’:tn OR ‘SINERSUL’:tn OR ‘SOLTRIM’:tn OR ‘SULFAMETHOXAZOLE -TRIMETHOPRIM ‘:tn OR  ‘SULFAMETOXAZOL MED TRIMETOPRIM’:tn OR ‘SULOTRIM’:tn OR ‘SUMETROLIM’:tn OR  ‘SYNTOPRIM’:tn OR ‘TAGREMIN’:tn OR ‘TMS’:tn OR ‘TRIMEZOL’:tn OR ‘ACTRIM’:tn OR ‘ADCO -CO- TRIMOXAZOLE’:tn OR ‘SULFATRIM’:tn OR ‘BACIN’:tn OR ‘BACTIN’:tn OR ‘BACTRAMIN’:tn OR  ‘BACTRIM’:tn OR ‘BACTRIMEL’:tn OR ‘BACTRIN F’:tn OR ‘BAKTAR’:tn OR ‘BAKTON’:tn OR ‘BISEPTOL’:tn  OR ‘BISMORAL’:tn OR ‘CHEMITRIM’:tn OR ‘CO -TRIMOXAZOL’:tn OR ‘COTRIM’:tn OR ‘COTRIMOX’:tn OR  ‘COTRIMOXAZOL’:tn OR ‘DAIPHEN’:tn OR ‘DEPRIM’:tn OR ‘DISEPTYL’:tn OR ‘INFECTRIN  SULFAMETHOXAZOLE/TRIMETHOPRIM’:tn OR ‘KEMOPRIM’:tn OR ‘NEOTRIN’:tn OR ‘NOPIL’:tn OR  ‘NOVO -TRIMEL’:tn OR ‘OMSAT’:tn OR ‘PROTRIN’:tn OR ‘PURBAC’:tn OR ‘RESPRIM’:tn OR ‘SEPTRA’:tn  OR ‘SEPTRIN’:tn OR ‘SMZ -TMP DS’:tn OR ‘SOLTRIM’:tn OR ‘SULFAMETHOXAZOLE AND TRIMETHOPRIM  DOUBLE STRENGTH’:tn OR ‘SULFAMETOXAZOL MED TRIMETOPRIM’:tn OR ‘SULFAPRIM’:tn OR  ‘SULFATRIM’:tn OR ‘SULFOTRIM’:tn OR ‘SUMETROLIM’:tn OR ‘TMS’:tn OR ‘TRIMAXAZOLE’:tn OR  ‘TRIMOSUL’:tn OR ‘VANADYL’:tn OR ‘ZOTRIM’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 278/368   hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   282.  Torasemide   ‘TORASEMIDE’ OR ‘TORASEMID’ OR ‘TORSEMIDE’ OR ‘TORASEMID’ OR ‘TORASEMIDA’ OR  ‘TORASEMIDU’ OR ‘TORASEMIDA’ OR ‘TORAZEMIDO’ OR ‘TORASEMIDUM’ OR ‘TORASEMIDE’ OR  ‘TORASÉMIDE’ OR ‘TORASEMIDA’ OR ‘TORASEMIIDI’ OR ‘TORASEMID’ OR ‘DILUTOL’:tn OR ‘DIURED’:tn  OR ‘DIUREMID’:tn OR ‘DIURESIX’:tn OR ‘DIUVER’:tn OR ‘ISODIUR’:tn OR ‘SUTRIL’:tn OR  ‘SUTRILNEO’:tn OR ‘TATION’:tn OR ‘TOKID’:tn OR ‘TOMID’:tn OR ‘TOPEM’:tn OR ‘TOREM’:tn OR  ‘TOPEM’:tn OR ‘TORADIUR’:tn OR ‘TORAGAMMA’:tn OR ‘TORAMIDE’:tn OR ‘TORARESE’:tn OR  ‘TORASEMID’:tn OR ‘TORASEMIDA’:tn OR ‘TORASEMIDE’:tn OR ‘TOREIN’:tn OR ‘TOREM’:tn OR  ‘TORIDIUM’:tn OR ‘TORREM’:tn OR ‘TORSEMED’:tn OR ‘TORZUS’:tn OR ‘TRIFAS’:tn OR ‘UNAT’:tn OR  ‘BRITOMAR’:tn OR ‘DEMADEX’:tn OR ‘DIUREMID’:tn OR ‘DIURESIX’:tn OR ‘DIUVER’:tn OR ‘LUPRAC’:tn  OR ‘SUTRIL’:tn OR ‘TORADIUR’:tn OR ‘TORAMID’:tn OR ‘TORASEM’:tn OR ‘TORASEMID’:tn OR  ‘TORASEMIDE’:tn OR ‘TORASIS’:tn OR ‘TOREM’:tn OR ‘TORREM’:tn OR ‘TORSEMED’:tn OR ‘TRIFAS’:tn  OR ‘TRIGRIM’:tn OR ‘UNAT’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   283.  Chloramphenicol   ‘CHLORAMPHENICOL’ OR ‘KLORAMFENIKOL’ OR ‘CLORAMFENICOL’ OR ‘CLORANFENICOL’ OR  ‘CHLORAMFENIKOL’ OR ‘CHLOORAMFENICOL’ OR ‘CHLORAMFENICOL’ OR ‘HLORAMFENIKOLS’ OR  ‘CHLORAMPHENICOLUM’ OR ‘CHLORAMPHENICOLUM’ OR ‘CHLORAMPHÉNICOL’ OR ‘KLORAMFENIKOLI’  OR ‘KLORAMFENIKOLIA’ OR ‘KLOORAMFENIKOOL’ OR ‘CLORANFENICOL’ OR ‘CHLORAMPHENICOL’ OR  ‘ANTIBIOPTAL’:tn OR ‘BROCHLOR’:tn OR ‘CAFCOL’:tn OR ‘CHEMICETINA’:tn OR  ‘CHLORAMPHENICOL’:tn OR ‘CHLORANIC’:tn OR ‘CHLORMYTOL’:tn OR ‘CHLOROMYCETIN’:tn OR  ‘CHLOROMYTOL’:tn OR ‘CLORAMFENICOL’:tn OR ‘CLORAMFENICOLO’:tn OR ‘CLOROCIL’:tn OR  ‘CLOROGEN’:tn OR ‘DETREOMYCYNA’:tn OR ‘EPICUTANTEST -TROLAB D2152’:tn OR ‘GOLDEN EYE’:tn  OR ‘IRUXOL’:tn OR ‘ISOPTO FENICOL’:tn OR ‘KEMICETINE SUCCINATE’:tn OR ‘KLORAFECT’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 279/368   ‘KLORAMFENIKOL’:tn OR ‘MEDOPHENICOL’:tn OR ‘MICETINOFTALMINA’:tn OR ‘MINIMS  CHLOORAMFENICOL’:tn OR ‘MINIMS CHLORAMPHENICOL’:tn OR ‘OCUMONT’:tn OR ‘OFTALMOLOSA  CUSI CLORAMFENICOL’:tn OR ‘OFTAN AKVAKOL’:tn OR ‘OFTAN CHLORA’:tn OR ‘POSIFENICOL C’:tn OR  ‘SIFICETINA’:tn OR ‘SULFANICOLE’:tn OR ‘TROLAB E2152’:tn OR ‘TUBILUX INFECTED EYES’:tn OR  ‘URSA -FENOL’:tn OR ‘VISTAPHENICOL’:tn OR ‘XANTERVIT ANTIBIOTICO’:tn OR  ‘ХЛОРНИТРОМИЦИН’:tn OR ‘CHLOMY’:tn OR ‘CHLOORAMFENICOL’:tn OR ‘CHLORAMEX’:tn OR  ‘CHLORAMPHENICOL’:tn OR ‘CHLOROMYCETIN’:tn OR ‘CHLOROMYXIN’:tn OR ‘CHLORSIG’:tn OR  ‘HYSETIN’:tn OR ‘IRUXOL’:tn OR ‘ISOPTO FENICOL’:tn OR ‘LEVOMYCETIN’:tn OR ‘PENTAMYCETIN’:tn  OR ‘SYNTHOMYCIN’:tn OR ‘SYNTHOMYCINE’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   284.  Clobatesol   ‘CLOBETASOL’ OR ‘CLOBETASOLUM’ OR ‘CLOBÉTASOL’ OR ‘CLOBETASOL’ OR ‘BUTAVATE’ OR  ‘CLARELUX’ OR ‘CLOBADERM’ OR ‘CLOBEDERM’ OR ‘CLOBEGALEN’ OR ‘CLOBESOL’ OR ‘CLOBETASOL’  OR ‘CLOBETASOLO’ OR ‘CLOBETAZOL ATB’ OR ‘CLOBEX’:tn OR ‘CLOBISDIN’:tn OR ‘CLOSANASOL’:tn  OR ‘CLOVATE’:tn OR ‘DECLOBÁN’:tn OR ‘DERMOVAL’:tn OR ‘DERMOVAT’:tn OR ‘DERMOVATE’:tn OR  ‘DERMOXIN’:tn OR ‘DERMOXINALE’:tn OR ‘EPICUTANTEST -TROLAB D2483’:tn OR ‘ETRIVEX’:tn OR  ‘KARISON’:tn OR ‘KLOBETASOLPROPIONAT AUDEN MCKENZIE’:tn OR ‘MEDODERMONE’:tn OR  ‘NOVATE’:tn OR ‘OLUX’:tn OR ‘RUBOCORD’:tn OR ‘TROLAB E2483’:tn OR ‘CLARELUX’:tn OR ‘CLOB - X’:tn OR ‘CLOBESOL’:tn OR ‘CLOBET (CLOBETASOL PROPIONATE)’:tn OR ‘CLOBEX’:tn OR ‘CLODAN’:tn  OR ‘CORMAX’:tn OR ‘DELACOR’:tn OR ‘DERMOVAL’:tn OR ‘DERMOVAT’:tn OR ‘DERMOVATE’:tn OR  ‘DERTOPICA’:tn OR ‘DOVATE’:tn OR ‘MYALONE’:tn OR ‘OLUX’:tn OR ‘PSOREX’:tn OR ‘SELMA’:tn OR  ‘TEMOVATE’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 280/368   'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   285.  Mannitol   ‘MANNITOL’ OR ‘MANITOL’ OR ‘MANNITOLUM’ O  ‘MANNITOLS’ OR ‘MANNITA’ OR ‘MANITOLS’ OR  ‘MANNĪTS’ OR ‘MANITOLIS’ OR ‘MANNITE’ OR ‘MANNITOLO’ OR ‘MANNITOL’ OR ‘MANNITÓL’ OR  ‘MANNITOL’ OR ‘MANNIT’ OR ‘ARIDOL’:tn OR ‘BRONCHITOL’:tn OR ‘DELTAMANNIT’:tn OR ‘GLICINA  CON MANNITOLO GALENICA SENESE’:tn OR ‘ISOTOL’:tn OR ‘MANIT HZTM’:tn OR ‘MANITOL’:tn OR  ‘MANNISOL A ‘:tn OR ‘MANNISOL B ‘:tn OR ‘MANNITOL’:tn OR ‘MITOMYCIN’:tn OR ‘OSMOFUNDIN’:tn  OR ‘OSMOHALE’:tn OR ‘OSMOSTERIL’:tn OR ‘POLÜSAHHARIID MENINGOKOKK C VAKTSIIN BIEFFE’:tn  OR ‘PURISOLE’:tn OR ‘SOLUZIONE DI MANNITOLO E SORBITOLO GALENICA SENESE’:tn OR ‘ALBAY’:tn  OR ‘ARIDOL’:tn OR ‘ISOTOL’:tn OR ‘MANICOL’:tn OR ‘MANNIT’:tn OR ‘MANNITOL’:tn OR  ‘NAFASTON’:tn OR ‘OSMITROL’:tn OR ‘OSMOFUNDIN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   286.  Methylphenidate Hydrochloride   ‘METHYLPHENIDATE HYDROCHLORIDE’ OR ‘METHYLPHENIDYLACETATE HYDROCHLORIDE’ OR  ‘METHYLPHENIDATE HCL’ OR ‘CLORIDRATO DE METILFENIDATO’ OR  ‘METHYLFENIDAATHYDROCHLORIDE’ OR ‘METHYLPHENIDATI HYDROCHLORIDUM’ OR  ‘MÉTHYLPHÉNIDATE, CHLORHYDRATE DE’ OR ‘HIDROCLORURO DE METILFENIDATO’ OR  ‘METILFENIDATO HIDROCLORURO’ OR ‘CONCERTA’:tn OR ‘DIFUMENIL’:tn OR ‘EQUASYM’:tn OR ‘M - PHEN’:tn OR ‘MATORIDE XL’:tn OR ‘MEDICEBRAN’:tn OR ‘MEDIKID’:tn OR ‘MEDIKINET’:tn OR  ‘MEFINAD’:tn OR ‘METHYLPENI TAD’:tn OR ‘METHYLPHENIDAT’:tn OR  ‘METHYLPHENIDATHYDROCHLORID’:tn OR ‘METIDATE’:tn OR ‘METILFENIDATO’:tn OR  ‘METILFENIDATO’:tn OR ‘MOTIRON’:tn OR ‘QUASYM’:tn OR ‘RILATINE’:tn OR ‘RITALIN’:tn OR  ‘RITALINA LA’:tn OR ‘TRANQUILYN’:tn OR ‘XENIDATE’:tn OR ‘METHYLPHENIDATE’:tn OR  ‘CONCERTA’:tn OR ‘MEDIKINET’:tn OR ‘METADATE’:tn OR ‘METHYLFENIDAAT’:tn OR  ‘METHYLFENIDAATHYDROCHLORIDE’:tn OR ‘METHYLIN ER’:tn OR ‘QUILLIVANT XR’:tn OR ‘RILATINE’:tn  OR ‘RITALIN’:tn OR ‘RITALINA’:tn OR ‘RUBIFEN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 281/368   adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   287.  Paricalcitol   ‘PARICALCITOL’ OR ‘PARYKALCYTOLU’ OR ‘PARICALCITOL’ OR ‘PARICALCITOL’ OR ‘PARIKLACITOLIO’  OR ‘PARICALCITOLUM’ OR ‘PARICALCITOL’ OR ‘PARACALCITOLO’ OR ‘PARIKALCITOLT’ OR  ‘PARICALCITOL’ OR ‘PARIKALSITOLIA’ OR ‘PARIKALSITOLI’ OR ‘PARICALCITOL’ OR ‘PARICALCITOL’ OR  ‘PARICALCITOL’ OR ‘PARICALCITOLUM’ OR ‘CALTOPAR’:tn OR ‘PANOZIN’:tn OR ‘PARICALCI’:tn OR  ‘PARICALCITOL’:tn OR ‘PASONICAN’:tn OR ‘PORONTAZIN’:tn OR ‘REXTOL’:tn OR ‘PARIVIT’:tn OR  ‘VIAPINAL’:tn OR ‘ZEMPLAR’:tn OR ‘ZILIDOR’:tn OR ‘ZEMPLAR’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   288.  Aceclofenac   ‘ACECLOFENAC’ OR ‘ACECLOFENACUM’ OR ‘ACÉCLOFÉNAC’ OR ‘ACECLOFENACO’ OR ‘ACE -TAB’:tn OR  ‘ACECGEN’:tn OR ‘ACECLONAC’:tn OR ‘ACLOCEN’:tn OR ‘AFLAMIL’:tn OR ‘AFLAMIN’:tn OR ‘AIR -TAL’:tn  OR ‘AIRTAL’:tn OR ‘AKLOFEP’:tn OR ‘ARACENAC’:tn OR ‘BEOFENAC’:tn OR ‘BETIRAL’:tn OR  ‘BIOFENAC’:tn OR ‘CARTREX’:tn OR ‘FALCOL’:tn OR ‘FLEMAC’:tn OR ‘FRACTOPON’:tn OR ‘GERBIN’:tn  OR ‘GLADIO’:tn OR ‘IASAN’:tn OR ‘KAFENAC’:tn OR ‘PRESERVEX’:tn OR ‘SARKIR’:tn OR ‘SINSUMIN’:tn     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 282/368   OR ‘SOVIPAN’:tn OR ‘VITAFEN’:tn OR ‘AFLAMIL’:tn OR ‘AIRTAL’:tn OR ‘ARACENAC’:tn OR  ‘BIOFENAC’:tn OR ‘BRISTAFLAM’:tn OR ‘PRESERVEX’:tn OR ‘PROFLAM’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   289.  Cisplatin   ‘CISPLATIN’ OR ‘CIS -DIAMMINODICLOROPLATINO’ OR ‘CISPLATINA’ OR ‘CIS - DIAMINEDICHLOROPLATINUM’ OR ‘CIS -PLATINUM’ OR ‘CISPLATINY’ OR ‘CISPLATYNY’ OR  ‘CISPLATINUM’ OR ‘CISPLATĪNA’ OR ‘CISPLATINO’ OR ‘CISZPLATIN’ OR ‘CISPLATINE’ OR  ‘SISPLATIINIA’ OR ‘TSISPLATIINI’ OR ‘CISPLATINO’ OR ‘CIS PLATINUM’ OR ‘CISPLATINO’ OR  ‘CISPLATINE’ OR ‘CHRISTIAENS’:tn OR ‘ESOPLATIN’:tn OR ‘ONCOPLAT’:tn OR ‘PLATAMINE’:tn OR  ‘PLATIDIAM’:tn OR ‘PLATOSIN’:tn OR ‘PRNTO PLATAMINE’:tn OR ‘SINPLATIN’:tn OR ‘ABIPLATIN’:tn OR  ‘BRIPLATIN’:tn OR ‘CISPLATYL’:tn OR ‘FAULDCISPLA’:tn OR ‘IA -CALL’:tn OR ‘KEMOPLAT’:tn OR  ‘NEOPLATIN’:tn OR ‘PLATAMINE’:tn OR ‘PLATIBLASTIN’:tn OR ‘PLATINEX’:tn OR ‘PLATINOL’:tn OR  ‘PLATISTINE CS’:tn OR ‘PLATOSIN’:tn OR ‘RANDA’:tn OR ‘SINPLATIN’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 283/368   290.  Diosmin   ‘DIOSMIN’ OR ‘BUCHU RESIN’ OR ‘3´,5,7 -TRIHYDROXY -4´-METHOXYFLAVONE 7 -[6-O-(6-DEOXY -Α-L- MANNOPYRANOSYL) -Β-D-GLUCOPYRANOSIDE]’ OR ‘BAROSMIN’ OR ‘DIOSMETIN 7 -RUTINOSIDE’ OR  ‘DIOSMINĂ’ OR ‘DIOSMINA’ OR ‘DIOSMĪNS’ OR ‘DIOSMINUM’ OR ‘DIOSMINA’ OR ‘DIOSMINE’ OR  ‘DIOSMINA’ OR ‘AFLAVIC’:tn OR ‘ALVENEX’:tn OR ‘CAPIVEN’:tn OR ‘DAFLON’:tn OR ‘DETRALEX’:tn OR  ‘DIMOVASS’:tn OR ‘DIOFLAVON’:tn OR ‘DIOHESPAN’:tn OR ‘DIOKET’:tn OR ‘DIOSMINEX’:tn OR  ‘DIOSVEN’:tn OR ‘DIOVENOR’:tn OR ‘DIOXIMIN’:tn OR ‘DOVEN COMPRESSE’:tn OR ‘ENDIUM’:tn OR  ‘EUDION’:tn OR ‘FLEVENOL’:tn OR ‘FLEVION’:tn OR ‘MECATON’:tn OR ‘MEDIVEINE’:tn OR ‘NOXAREL’:tn  OR ‘OFLAZET’:tn OR ‘OTREX’:tn OR ‘PELETHROCIN’:tn OR ‘PHLEBODIA’:tn OR ‘PROCTO -HEMOLAN  CONTROL’:tn OR ‘RADIAVIT’:tn OR ‘RESMINA’:tn OR ‘REVADA’:tn OR ‘ROXYDRAL’:tn OR ‘SMUDAL’:tn  OR ‘TITANORAL’:tn OR ‘VEN -DETREX BID’:tn OR ‘VENACLAR’:tn OR ‘VENOSMINE’:tn OR ‘VENOTEC’:tn  OR ‘ALVEN’:tn OR ‘CAPIVEN’:tn OR ‘DAFLON’:tn OR ‘DETRALEX’:tn OR ‘DIOSMIN’:tn OR ‘DIOSPER’:tn  OR ‘DIOVENOR’:tn OR ‘ELATEC’:tn OR ‘ENDIUM’:tn OR ‘FLAVONID’:tn OR ‘FLEBON’:tn OR  ‘PHLEBODIA’:tn OR ‘VARITON’:tn OR ‘VENAFLON’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   291.  Amikacin   ‘AMIKACIN’ OR ‘AMIKACINA’ OR ‘AMIKAMYCIN’ OR ‘AMIKIN’ OR ‘AMIKLIN’ OR ‘AMIKOZIT’ OR  ‘AMUKIN’:tn OR ‘BELMATON’:tn OR ‘BICLIN’:tn OR ‘BIKLIN’:tn OR ‘CHEMACIN’:tn OR ‘NOVAMIN  AMIKACIN SULFATE’:tn OR ‘PURUTETSUSHIN’:tn OR ‘ROMIKACIN’:tn OR ‘AMIC’:tn OR ‘AMICASIL’:tn  OR ‘AMIKA -SYNTO’:tn OR ‘AMIKACINE’:tn OR ‘AMIKAN’:tn OR ‘AMIKIN’:tn OR ‘AMIKOZIT’:tn OR  ‘AMUKIN’:tn OR ‘BIKLIN’:tn OR ‘BIODACYNA’:tn OR ‘BIORISAN’:tn OR ‘BRIKLIN’:tn OR ‘BRUCELIN’:tn  OR ‘CHEMACIN’:tn OR ‘DRAMIGEL’:tn OR ‘FARCYCLIN’:tn OR ‘FLEXELITE’:tn OR ‘KANCIN’:tn OR  ‘LANOMYCIN’:tn OR ‘LIKACIN’:tn OR ‘LUKADIN’:tn OR ‘MEDIAMIK’:tn OR ‘MIGRACIN’:tn OR ‘MIKAN’:tn  OR ‘NEKACIN’:tn OR ‘ORLOBIN’:tn OR ‘ROVERICLIN’:tn OR ‘SELEMYCIN’:tn OR ‘UZIX’:tn OR  ‘XYLANAL’:tn OR ‘СЕЛЕМИЦИН’:tn OR ‘AMIKACIN’:tn OR ‘AMIKACÍN’:tn OR ‘AMIKACYNA’:tn OR  ‘AMIKACINE’:tn OR ‘AMIKACINAS’:tn OR ‘AMIKACINUM’:tn OR ‘AMICACINA’:tn OR ‘AMIKACINE’:tn OR  ‘AMIKACINA’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 284/368   'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   292.  Cefazolin   ‘CEFAZOLIN’ OR ‘CEFAZOLĪNA’ OR ‘CEFAZOLINAS’ OR ‘CEFAZOLINO’ OR ‘CEFAZOLINUM’ OR  ‘CEFAZOLIN’ OR ‘CÉFAZOLINE’ OR ‘CEFAZOLINA’ OR ‘ALTAZOLIN’:tn OR ‘AZEPO’:tn OR  ‘BIOFAZOLIN’:tn OR ‘CEFAMEZIN’:tn OR ‘CEFAZIL’:tn OR ‘CEFAZOLINA’:tn OR ‘CEFAZOLINE’:tn OR  ‘CEFIZOL’:tn OR ‘CEFODININ’:tn OR ‘CEPHAZOLIN’:tn OR ‘CROMEZIN’:tn OR ‘INTRAZOLINA’:tn OR  ‘KEFZOL’:tn OR ‘NEFAZOL’:tn OR ‘REFLIN’:tn OR ‘SAARZOLIN’:tn OR ‘SERVAZOLIN’:tn OR  ‘TARFAZOLIN’:tn OR ‘VIFAZOLIN’:tn OR ‘VULMIZOLIN’:tn OR ‘ZEPILEN’:tn OR ‘ZOLIVAL’:tn OR  ‘ANCEF’:tn OR ‘CEFACIDAL’:tn OR ‘CEFAMEZIN’:tn OR ‘CEFAZIL’:tn OR ‘CEFAZOL’:tn OR  ‘CEFAZOLIN’:tn OR ‘CEFAZOLINA’:tn OR ‘CEZOLIN’:tn OR ‘ELZOGRAM’:tn OR ‘KEFAZOL’:tn OR  ‘KEFZOL’:tn OR ‘MAKSİPORİN’:tn OR ‘NACEF’:tn OR ‘RANZOL’:tn OR ‘RASENAZOLIN’:tn OR ‘REFLIN’:tn  OR ‘SEFAZOL’:tn OR ‘SEFMAZON’:tn OR ‘TAICEZOLIN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   293.  Haloperidol   ‘ALOPERIDIN’ OR ‘HALOPERIDOL’ OR ‘AVANT’:tn OR ‘HALDOL’:tn OR ‘HALOMONTH’:tn OR  ‘HALOPERIDOL’:tn OR ‘HALOPERIDOLUM’:tn OR ‘HALOPIDOL’:tn OR ‘HALOSTEN’:tn OR  ‘LEMONAMIN’:tn OR ‘LINTON’:tn OR ‘MANACE’:tn OR ‘NEOPERIDOL’:tn OR ‘PERIDOL’:tn OR  ‘SENORM’:tn OR ‘SERENACE’:tn OR ‘SIGAPERIDOL’:tn OR ‘ALOPERIDIN’:tn OR ‘DECALDOL’:tn OR  ‘HALDOL’:tn OR  ‘HALOPER’:tn OR ‘HALOXEN’:tn OR ‘SERENACE’:tn OR ‘HALOPERIDOL’:tn OR  ‘HALOPERYDOL’:tn OR ‘HALOPERYDOL’:tn OR ‘HALOPERIDOLS’:tn OR ‘HALOPERIDOLUM’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 285/368   ‘ALOPERIDOLO’:tn OR ‘HALOPÉRIDOL’:tn OR ‘HALOPERIDOL’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   294.  Nitrazepam   ‘NITRAZEPAM’ OR ‘NITRAZEPAMUM’ OR ‘NITRAZÉPAM’ OR ‘APODORM’:tn OR ‘CERSON’:tn OR ‘DORMO - PUREN’:tn OR ‘EATAN N’:tn OR ‘EUNOCTIN’:tn OR ‘FLUNINOC’:tn OR ‘FLUNITRAZEPAM’:tn OR  ‘HIPNOSEDON’:tn OR ‘IMESON’:tn OR ‘INSOMIN’:tn OR ‘MOGADAN’:tn OR ‘MOGADON’:tn OR  ‘NARCOZEP’:tn OR ‘NITREDON’:tn OR ‘NOVANOX’:tn OR ‘PACISYN’:tn OR ‘RADEDORM’:tn OR  ‘REMNOS’:tn OR ‘ROHYPNOL’:tn OR ‘ROIPNOL’:tn OR ‘SOMNUBENE’:tn OR ‘ALODORM’:tn OR ‘AREM’:tn  OR ‘BENZALIN’:tn OR ‘BIBITTOACE’:tn OR ‘CYSVON’:tn OR ‘DUMOLID’:tn OR ‘FLUNITRAZEPAM’:tn OR  ‘FLUTRACE’:tn OR ‘HIRUSUKAMIN’:tn OR ‘HYPNODORM’:tn OR ‘INSOMIN’:tn OR ‘MOGADAN’:tn OR  ‘MOGADON’:tn OR ‘NARCOZEP’:tn OR ‘NELBON’:tn OR ‘NELUROLEN’:tn OR ‘NEUCHLONIC’:tn OR  ‘NITRADOS’:tn OR ‘NITRAPAN’:tn OR ‘NITRAZADON’:tn OR ‘NITRAZEPAM’:tn OR ‘NOVANOX’:tn OR  ‘NUMBON’:tn OR ‘ROHIPNOL’:tn OR ‘ROHYPNOL’:tn OR ‘ROIPNOL’:tn OR ‘SILECE’:tn OR ‘SOMNITE’:tn  AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR  misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp  OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 286/368   295.  Ursodeoxycholic acid   ‘ACTIGALL’ OR ‘DE -URSIL RR’ OR ‘DELURSAN’ OR ‘DESTOLIT’ OR ‘DEURSIL’ OR ‘GOKUMISIN’ OR  ‘LITURSOL’ OR ‘PRECOAT’ OR ‘REPTOR’ OR ‘UBIRON’ OR ‘URDAFALK’ OR ‘URDENACIN’ OR ‘URDES’ OR  ‘URDESTON’ OR ‘URSACOL’ OR ‘URSAMIC’ OR ‘URSO’ OR ‘URSOBIL’ OR ‘URSOCHOL’ OR ‘URSODIOL’  OR ‘URSOFLOR’ OR ‘URSOLIN’ OR ‘URSOLISIN’ OR ‘URSOLIT’ OR ‘URSOLVAN’ OR ‘URSOPOL’ OR  ‘URSOSAN’ OR ‘URSOTAN’ OR ‘AC URSO ’ OR ‘ACIDE URSODESOXYCHOLIQUE’ OR ‘ACIDO  URSODESOSSICOLICO’ OR ‘ADURSAL’:tn OR ‘ARSACOL’:tn OR ‘CHOLURSO’:tn OR ‘DELURSAN’:tn OR  ‘DESOXIL’:tn OR ‘DESTOLIT’:tn OR ‘DOZURSO’:tn OR ‘FRAURS’:tn OR ‘LITOFF’:tn OR ‘LITURSOL’:tn OR  ‘PROURSAN’:tn OR ‘TAURO’:tn OR ‘TUDCABIL’:tn OR ‘URDOX’:tn OR ‘URDÈS’:tn OR ‘URSACOL’:tn OR  ‘URSILON’:tn OR ‘URSO’:tn OR ‘URSOBIL’:tn OR ‘URSOBILANE’:tn OR ‘URSOCAM’:tn OR  ‘URSOCHOL’:tn OR ‘URSODEOKSYKOLSYRE STRIDES’:tn OR ‘URSODEOXYCHOLSÄURE STRIDES’:tn OR  ‘URSOFLOR’:tn OR ‘URSOLISIN’:tn OR ‘URSOPOL’:tn OR ‘URSOROM’:tn OR ‘URSOSAN’:tn OR  ‘URSULTEC’:tn OR ‘URZODEZOXIKÓLSAV STRIDES’:tn OR ‘URSODEOXYCHOLIC ACID’:tn OR  ‘URSODEOXICÓLICO, ÁCIDO’:tn OR ‘URSODESOXYCHOLIC ACID’:tn OR ‘URSODIOL’:tn OR  ‘URSODEOXICHOLSYRA’:tn OR ‘URSODEOKSIHOLNE KISLINE’:tn OR ‘ACID URSODEOXICOLIC’:tn OR  ‘KWAS URSODEOKSYCHOLOWY’:tn OR ‘URSODEOXYCHOLZUUR’:tn OR ‘URSODEZOKSIHOLS’:tn OR  ‘URSODEOKSICHOLIO RUGŠTIES’:tn OR ‘ACIDUM URSODEOXYCHOLICUM’:tn OR ‘ACIDO  URSODESOSSICOLICO’:tn OR ‘ACIDE URSODÉOXYCHOLIQUE’:tn OR ‘ÁCIDO URSODEOXICÓLICO’:tn  OR ‘URSODEOXICÓLICO, ÁCIDO’:tn OR ‘ÁCIDO URSODESOXICÓLICO’:tn OR  ‘URSODESOXYCHOLSÄURE’:tn OR ‘URSODEOXYCHOLSYRE’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   296.  Salcatonin   ‘SALCATONIN’ OR ‘CALCITONIN -SALMON’ OR ‘SALMON CALCITONIN’ OR ‘KALCYTONINA ŁOSOSIOWA’  OR ‘CALCITONINUM SALMONIS’ OR ‘CALCITONINA DE SALMÓN’ OR ‘CALCITONINA (SALMÓN)’ OR OR  ‘ELCATONIN’ OR ‘ELCATONINUM’ OR ‘ELCATONINE’ OR ‘ELCATONINA’ OR ‘AUROCALCIN’ OR ‘CADENS’  OR ‘CALCIHEXAL’ OR ‘CALCITONINA ALMIRALL’ OR ‘CALCITONINA DE SALMÃO GENERIS’ OR  ‘CALCITONINA DE SALMÃO TOLIFE’ OR ‘CALCITONINE’:tn OR ‘CALSYN’:tn OR ‘CALSYNAR’:tn OR  ‘GENECALCIN’:tn OR ‘IRICALCIN’:tn OR ‘KARIL’:tn OR ‘MIACALCIC’:tn OR ‘MIAKARIL’:tn OR  ‘NORCALCIN’:tn OR ‘NYLEX’:tn OR ‘OSEOTOTAL’:tn OR ‘OSPOR’:tn OR ‘OSSEOCALCINA’:tn OR  ‘OSTULEX’:tn OR ‘RAFACALCIN’:tn OR ‘SALMON CALCITONIN ‘:tn OR ‘TENDOLON’:tn OR  ‘BIOCALCIN’:tn OR ‘CALCIMAR’:tn OR ‘CALCITAR’:tn OR ‘CALCITON’:tn OR ‘CALCITONIN -CT’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 287/368   ‘CALCITONINE’:tn OR ‘CALCITORAN’:tn OR ‘CALOGEN’:tn OR ‘CALSYNAR’:tn OR ‘CALTINE’:tn OR  ‘LETON’:tn OR ‘MIACALCIN’:tn OR ‘MYCALCIN’:tn OR ‘OSTEOCALCIN’:tn OR ‘OSTEODON’:tn OR  ‘EKATENIN’:tn OR ‘ELCITONIN’:tn OR ‘ERYNDACIN’:tn OR ‘ESCATONYL’:tn OR ‘LASKARTON’:tn OR  ‘OSTETONIN’:tn OR ‘POCEVIN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   297.  Ciclosporin   ('AMADRA' :tn OR 'CICLOSPORIN' /exp OR 'CICLOSPORIN' OR 'CICLOSPORINE' /exp OR 'CICLOSPORINE'  OR 'CICPORAL' :tn OR 'CIKLOSPORIN' OR 'GENGRAF' :tn OR 'PANIMUN BIORAL' :tn OR 'PAPILOCK  MINI' :tn OR 'RESTASIS' :tn OR 'SANDIMMUN' :tn OR 'SANDIMMUNE' :tn OR 'CAPIMUNE' :tn OR  'CAPSORIN' :tn OR 'CICLORAL' :tn OR 'CIQORIN' :tn OR 'CYCLAID' :tn OR 'DEXIMUNE' :tn OR  'EQUORAL' :tn OR 'IKERVIS' :tn OR 'IMMUNOSPORIN' :tn OR 'IMUNOFAR' :tn OR 'NEOIMMUN' :tn OR  'NEORAL' :tn OR 'SPORILEN' :tn OR 'VANQUORAL' :tn OR 'CLICOSPORINA' OR 'CYKLOSPORYNA' OR  'CIKLOSPORINAS' OR 'CICLOSPORINUM' OR 'CICLOSPORINA') AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 288/368   298.  Fexofenadine   ‘FEXOFENADINE’ OR ‘ALLEGRA’ OR ‘ALLEGRATAB’ OR ‘ALLERGO RHINATHIOL’ OR ‘ALTERFAST’ OR  ‘ALTIFEX’ OR ‘ALTIVA’ OR ‘CLARIFAST’ OR ‘EWOFEX’ OR ‘FENASYN’ OR ‘FEXALLEGRA’ OR ‘FEXGEN’ OR  ‘FEXIGRA’ OR ‘FEXOFAST’ OR ‘FEXOFENADERM’ OR ‘FEXOFENADIN’ OR ‘FEXOFENADINA’ OR  ‘FEXOFENADINE’ OR ‘FEXOFENADINHYDROCHLORID’ OR ‘FEXOGEN’:tn OR ‘FEXORIN’:tn OR ‘FIXIT’:tn  OR ‘FIXODIN’:tn OR ‘HISTABS’:tn OR ‘HISTAFAST’:tn OR ‘NAZONITE’:tn OR ‘NEFOXEF’:tn OR ‘TELFAST  ‘:tn OR ‘TELFEXO’:tn OR ‘ALTIVA’:tn OR ‘FEXADIN’:tn OR ‘FEXOFEN’:tn OR ‘FEXOFENADINE HCL’:tn OR  ‘FEXOLERG’:tn OR ‘FEXOTABS’:tn OR ‘FIXODIN’:tn OR ‘WAL FEX’:tn OR ‘XERGIC’:tn AND ('adverse  drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR  'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   299.  5-Fluorouracil   ‘5-FLUOROURACIL’ OR ‘ADRUCIL’:tn OR ‘EFUDEX’:tn OR ‘EFUDIX’:tn OR ‘EFURIX’:tn OR  ‘FAULDFLUOR’:tn OR ‘FLUORO -URACIL’ OR ‘FLUOROPLEX’:tn OR ‘FLUOROURACIL’ OR  ‘FLUOROURACILE’ OR ‘FLURACEDYL’ OR ‘FLUROBLASTIN’:tn OR ‘5 -FLUOROURACIL’ OR ‘CINKEF -U’:tn  OR ‘EFUDIX’:tn OR ‘EUROFLUOR’:tn OR ‘FLUORO -URACIL’:tn OR ‘FLUORO -URACILE’ OR  ‘FLUOROURACIL’ OR ‘FLUOROURACILE’ OR ‘FLUOROURACILO’ OR ‘FLURABLASTIN’ OR ‘FLURACEDYL’  OR ‘FLUROBLASTINE’  OR ‘FLÚO RÓÚRACÍL’ OR ‘RIBOFLUOR’ OR ‘FLUOROURACIL’ OR ‘5  FLUOROURACIL’ OR ‘FLUOROURACILO’ OR ‘5 -FLUOROURACIL’ OR ‘FLUORURACIL’ OR ‘5 -FU’ OR  ‘FLUOROURACILE’ OR ‘FLUOROURACILO’ OR ‘5 -FLUOROURACILO’ OR ‘FLUOROURACYL’ OR  ‘FLUOROURACIL’ OR ‘FLUOROURACILUM’ OR ‘FLUOROURACILE’ OR ‘FLUOROURACIL’ OR  ‘FLUOROURACIL’ OR ‘5 -FLUOROURACILE’ OR ‘FLUOROURACILE’ OR ‘FLUOROURASIILIA’ OR  ‘FLUOROURACILO’ OR ‘5 -FLUORURACIL’ OR ‘FLUOROURACIL’ OR ‘FLUOROURACIL’ OR ‘FLUORURACIL’  OR ‘FLUOROURACILUM’ AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti  OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 289/368   immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   300.  Fosinopril   ‘FOSINOPRIL’ OR ‘FOSINOPRILUM’ OR ‘ELITEN’ OR ‘FOSICARD’ OR ‘FOSINIL’ OR ‘FOSINO’ OR  ‘FOSINOPRIL’ OR ‘FOSINOPRIL SODIUM’ OR ‘FOSINOPRILNATRIUM’ OR ‘FOSINORM’:tn OR ‘FOSIPRES’  OR ‘FOSITEN’:tn OR ‘FOSITENS’:tn OR ‘FOSYPRIL’:tn OR ‘FOZINOPRIL’ OR ‘FOZITEC’ OR  ‘MONOPRIL’:tn OR ‘MONOTENS’:tn OR ‘NOVIFORM’:tn OR ‘TENSOGARD’:tn OR ‘ELITEN’:tn OR  ‘FOSICARD’:tn OR ‘FOSINOPRILNATRIUM’:tn OR ‘FOSITEN’:tn OR ‘FOSITENS’:tn OR ‘FOZITEC’:tn OR  ‘MONOPRIL’:tn OR ‘NEWACE’:tn OR ‘SINOPRIL’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   301.  Emtricitabine, Tenofovir   ('AGARDON':tn OR 'ARGIODIN':tn OR 'ATRILESTO':tn OR 'BIKTARVY':tn OR 'DATRIBINO':tn OR  'DELSTRIGO':tn OR 'DESCOVY':tn OR 'DISOPROXILO DE TENOFOVIR' OR 'DIZOPROKSILTENOFOVIRAT'  OR 'DUNOTRISIN':tn OR 'EFATRITEN':tn OR 'EFAVEMTEN':tn OR 'EMTENEF':tn OR 'EMTENOVO':tn OR  'EMTRICITABIN, DIZOPROKSILTENOFOVIRAT' OR 'EMTRICITABIN, TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL' OR  'EMTRICITABIN, TENOFOVIR' OR 'EMTRICITABIN, TENOFOVIRDISOPROXIL' OR 'EMTRICITABIN,  TENOFOVIRDIZOPROKSIL' OR 'EMTRICITABINA' OR 'EMTRICITABINA, TENOFOVIR' OR  'EMTRICITABINA, TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL' OR 'EMTRICITABINĂ, TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL' OR  'EMTRICITABINA, TENOFOVIR DISOPROXILO' OR 'EMTRICITABINE'/exp OR 'EMTRICITABINE' OR  'EMTRICITABINE, EFAVIRENZ, TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL'/exp OR 'EMTRICITABINE, EFAVIRENZ,  TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL' OR 'EMTRICITABINE, EFAVIRENZ, TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL PHOSPHATE' OR  'EMTRICITABINE, EFAVIRENZ, TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL SUCCINATE'/exp OR 'EMTRICITABINE,  EFAVIRENZ, TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL SUCCINATE' OR 'EMTRICITABINE, TENOFOVIR' OR  'EMTRICITABINE, TENOFOVIR ALAFENAMIDE'/exp OR 'EMTRICITABINE, TENOFOVIR ALAFENAMIDE' OR  'EMTRICITABINE, TENOFOVIR ALAFENAMIDE FUMARATE, DARUNAVIR ETHANOLATE, COBICISTAT' OR  'EMTRICITABINE, TENOFOVIR ALAFENAMIDE, BICTEGRAVIR' OR 'EMTRICITABINE, TENOFOVIR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 290/368   ALAFENAMIDE, COBICISTAT, ELVITEGRAVIR' OR 'EMTRICITABINE, TENOFOVIR ALAFENAMIDE,  RILPIVIRINE' OR 'EMTRICITABINE, TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL'/exp OR 'EMTRICITABINE, TENOFOVIR  DISOPROXIL' OR 'EMTRICITABINE, TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL FUMARATE'/exp OR 'EMTRICITABINE,  TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL FUMARATE' OR 'EMTRICITABINE, TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL FUMARATE,  COBICISTAT, ELVITEGRAVIR' OR 'EMTRICITABINE, TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL MALEATE'/exp OR  'EMTRICITABINE, TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL MALEATE' OR 'EMTRICITABINE, TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL  PHOSPHATE'/exp OR 'EMTRICITABINE, TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL PHOSPHATE' OR 'EMTRICITABINE,  TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL SUCCINATE'/exp OR 'EMTRICITABINE, TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL SUCCINATE'  OR 'EMTRICITABINE, TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL, RILPIVIRINE' OR 'EMTRICITABINUM' OR 'EMTRIVA':tn  OR 'ENOSITO':tn OR 'EVIPLERA':tn OR 'EXATRON':tn OR 'GENOVYA':tn OR 'GENVOYA':tn OR  'HEMOCINOL':tn OR 'ICTADY':tn OR 'ICTASTAN':tn OR 'LAMIVUDIN, TENOFOVIRDISOPROXIL' OR  'LAMIVUDINĂ, TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL' OR 'LAMIVUDINA, TENOFOVIR DISOPROXILO' OR  'LAMIVUDINE, DORAVIRINE, TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL'/exp OR 'LAMIVUDINE, DORAVIRINE,  TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL' OR 'LAMIVUDINE, TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL'/exp OR 'LAMIVUDINE,  TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL' OR 'LAMIVUDINE, TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL FUMARATE'/exp OR  'LAMIVUDINE, TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL FUMARATE' OR 'ODEFSEY':tn OR 'PADVIRAM':tn OR  'PMPA'/exp OR 'PMPA' OR 'STIBILD':tn OR 'STRIBILD':tn OR 'SYMTUZA':tn OR 'TÉNOFOVIR' OR  'TENOFOVIR ALAFENAMIDE'/exp OR 'TENOFOVIR ALAFENAMIDE' OR 'TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL'/exp OR  'TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL' OR 'TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL FUMARATE'/exp OR 'TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL  FUMARATE' OR 'TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL MALEATE' OR 'TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL SUCCINATE'/exp OR  'TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL SUCCINATE' OR 'TENOFOVIR DISOPROXILO' OR 'TENOFOVIRDISOPROXIL'  OR 'TENOFOVIRDIZOPROKSIL' OR 'TENOFOVIRUM' OR 'TENOVIRAL':tn OR 'TRAVADA':tn OR  'TRAVATA':tn OR 'TRAVUDA':tn OR 'TRINISTEM':tn OR 'TRUVADA':tn OR 'VEMLIDY':tn OR 'VINEAD':tn  OR 'VIREAD':tn OR 'VIRIAD':tn OR 'VIROFOB':tn OR 'ВИРОФОБ':tn OR 'ДУНОТРИСИН':tn OR  'ЕМТРИЦИТАБИН, ТЕНОФОВИР' OR 'ЕМТРИЦИТАБИН, ТЕНОФОВИР ДИЗОПРОКСИЛ' OR 'ТЕНОФОВИР'  OR 'ТЕНОФОВИР ДИЗОПРОКСИЛ') AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   302.  Prednisone   ('CISON':tn OR 'CORTANCYL':tn OR 'CORTENCYL':tn OR 'CUTASON':tn OR 'DACORTÍN':tn OR  'DECORTIN':tn OR 'DEHYDROCORTISON':tn OR 'DELTACORTENE':tn OR 'DELTACORTONE':tn OR  'DELTISON':tn OR 'ENCORTON':tn OR 'LODOTRA':tn OR 'NEOMYCIN SULFATE, PREDNISONE' OR  'OFTALMOLOSA CUSÍ PREDNISONA -NEOMICINA':tn OR 'PREDNI TABLINEN':tn OR 'PREDNISON' OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 291/368   'PREDNISONA' OR 'PREDNISONĂ' OR 'PREDNISONE' OR 'PREDNISONE ACETATE' OR 'PREDNISONUM'  OR 'PREDNIZON' OR 'PREDNIZÓN' OR 'RECTODELT':tn OR 'SOFLON':tn OR 'TULEDUS':tn OR  'ДЕХИДРОКОРТИЗОН':tn OR 'ПРЕДНИЗОН') AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   303.  Chloroquine   '('7-CHLORO -4-((4-(DIETHYLAMINO) -1-METHYLBUTYL)AMINO)QUINOLINE' OR 'A -CQ 100':tn OR  'ARECHIN':tn OR 'AVLOCLOR':tn OR 'CHLOROCHIN' OR 'CHLOROQUINE' OR 'CHLOROQUINE AND  PROGUANIL ANTI -MALARIAL':tn OR 'CHLOROQUINE DIPHOSPHATE' OR 'CHLOROQUINE PHOSPHATE'  OR 'CHLOROQUINE PHOSPHATE, PROGUANIL HYDROCHLORIDE' OR 'CHLOROQUINE SULFATE' OR  'CHLOROQUINUM' OR 'CLOROCHINA' OR 'CLOROQUINA' OR 'DELAGIL':tn OR 'DIAQUENIL':tn OR  'DOLQUINE':tn OR 'DUPLAXIL':tn OR 'ERCOQUIN':tn OR 'FLAQUENIL':tn OR 'HIDROXICLOROQUINA' OR  'HYDROXYCHLOROQUIN' OR 'HYDROXYCHLOROQUINE' OR 'HYDROXYCHLOROQUINE SULFATE' OR  'HYDROXYCHLOROQUINE SULPHATE BP' OR 'HYDROXYCHLOROQUINESULFAAT DOC' OR  'HYDROXYCHLOROQUINSULFAT' OR 'HYPLAQUIN':tn OR 'IDROSSICLOROCHINA DOC' OR 'KLOROKIN'  OR 'KLOROKINFOSFAT' OR 'MALARIVON':tn OR 'N -(7-CHLOROQUINOLIN -4-YL)-N,N-DIETHYL - PENTANE -1,4-DIAMINE' OR 'NIVAQUIN':tn OR 'NIVAQUINE':tn OR 'OKIKLORIN':tn OR 'OXIKLORIN':tn  OR 'PALUDRINE/AVLOCLOR ANTI -MALARIAL TRAVEL PACK':tn OR 'PLACVENILI':tn OR 'PLAGUNIL':tn  OR 'PLAQUANIL':tn OR 'PLAQUENIL':tn OR 'PLAQUENOL':tn OR 'PLAQUINOL':tn OR 'QUENSYL':tn OR  'QUINORIC':tn OR 'RESOCHIN':tn OR 'RESOCHÍN':tn OR 'RESOCHIN JUNIOR':tn OR 'RESORCHIN':tn  OR 'SAVARINE':tn OR 'UNIKINON':tn OR 'XANBAN':tn OR 'РЕЗОХИН':tn) AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 292/368   reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   304.  Darunavir   ('DARUNASTA':tn OR 'DARUNAVIR' OR 'DARUNAVIR, COBICISTAT' OR 'DARUNAVIRUM' OR  'DAVARINO':tn OR 'DODEFAR':tn OR 'PREZISTA':tn OR 'PREZISTATM':tn OR 'REZAVIR':tn OR  'REZOLSTA':tn OR 'ДАРУНАВИР') AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   305.  Ritonavir   ('KALETRA':tn OR 'LOPINAVIR, RITONAVIR' OR 'NORVIR':tn OR 'NOVIR':tn OR 'RITONAVIIR' OR  'RITONAVIIRI' OR 'RITONAVIR' OR 'RITONAVIR, OMBITASVIR, PARITAPREVIR' OR 'RITONAVIRAS' OR  'RITONAVIRS' OR 'RITONAVIRUM' OR 'RYTONAWIR' OR 'VIEKIRAX':tn OR 'ЛОПИНАВИР, РИТОНАВИР'  OR 'РИТОНАВИР') AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR  'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 293/368   306.  Ivermectin   ('BIBOVEL':tn OR 'DRIPONIN':tn OR 'EFACTI':tn OR 'IVERMECTIN'/exp OR 'IVERMECTIN' OR  'IVERMECTINA'/exp OR 'IVERMECTINA' OR 'IVERMECTINE' OR 'IVERMECTINUM' OR 'MECTIZAN':tn OR  'ROMITU':tn OR 'SCABALL':tn OR 'SCABIORAL':tn OR 'SCATOL':tn OR 'SOOLANTRA':tn OR  'STROMECTAL':tn OR 'STROMECTOL':tn OR 'VONA':tn OR 'СООЛАНТРА':tn) AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   307.  Nitric oxide   ('AZOTU(II) TLENEK' OR 'DUŠIKOV (II) OKSID' OR 'DUSIKOV OKSID' OR 'INALOSSIN':tn OR  'INOMAX':tn OR 'KINOX':tn OR 'KVÄVEOXID' OR 'MONOXID DE AZOT' OR 'MONOXYDE D AZOTE' OR  'NEOPHYR':tn OR 'NITRIC OXIDE' OR 'NITROGÉN MONOXID' OR 'NITROGENII OXIDUM' OR  'NOMIXGEN':tn OR 'NOXAP':tn OR 'OXID DE AZOT' OR 'OXID DUSNATÝ' OR 'ÓXIDO NÍTRICO' OR  'PULMONOX':tn OR 'RESPADUR A':tn OR 'RIVONOX':tn OR 'STICKOXID' OR 'STICKSTOFFMONOXID' OR  'STIKSTOFMONOXIDE' OR 'TLENEK AZOTU' OR 'TYPPIOKSIDI' OR 'VASOKINOX':tn) AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 294/368   308.  Filgrastim   ('ACCOFIL':tn OR 'CEGFILA':tn OR 'FILGRASTIIMI' OR 'FILGRASTIIMIA' OR 'FILGRASTIM' OR  'FILGRASTIM (GENETICAL RECOMBINATION)' OR 'FILGRASTIMA' OR 'FILGRASTĪMA' OR 'FILGRASTIME'  OR 'FILGRASTIMO' OR 'FILGRASTIMUM' OR 'FILGRASZTIMOT' OR 'FULPHILA':tn OR 'GRANULOKIN':tn  OR 'GRANULOKINE':tn OR 'GRANULOKINE SINGLEJECT':tn OR 'GRASTOFIL':tn OR 'GRASUSTEK':tn OR  'LIPEGFILGRASTIM' OR 'LONQUEX':tn OR 'NAUPOGEN':tn OR 'NEOPOGEN':tn OR 'NEPOGEN':tn OR  'NEULASTA':tn OR 'NEUPOGEN':tn OR 'NEUPOGEN NOVUM':tn OR 'NEUPOGEN SINGLEJECT':tn OR  'NEUPROGEN':tn OR 'NIVESTIM':tn OR 'NUELASTA':tn OR 'NUPOGEN':tn OR 'PEGFILGRASTIM' OR  'PELGRAZ':tn OR 'PELMEG':tn OR 'RATIOGRASTIM':tn OR 'TEOGRASTIM':tn OR 'TEVAGRASTIM':tn OR  'UDENYCA':tn OR 'ZARSIO':tn OR 'ZARZIO':tn OR 'ZIEXTENZO':tn OR 'ФИЛГРАСТИМ') AND ('adverse  drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR  'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   309.  Oseltamivir   ('EBILFUMIN':tn OR 'OSELTAMIVIR' OR 'OSÉLTAMIVIR' OR 'OSELTAMIVIR PHOSPHATE' OR  'OSELTAMIVIRUM' OR 'TAMIFLU':tn OR 'TAMIVIL':tn) AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim         European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 295/368   IV. Search parameters for herbal substance groups and  variants   310.  Valeriana   ‘VALERIAN ROOT DRY EXTRACT’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS BALDRIANWURZEL’ OR ‘DRY  HYDROALCOHOLIC EXTRACT (36.3 % V/V) OF VALERIAN (VALERIANA OFFICINALIS L. RADIX)’ OR  ‘GEDROOGD WATERIG -ALCOHOLISCH EXTRACT (36.3 % V/V VAN VALERIAAN (VALERIANA  OFFICINALIS L. RADIX)’ OR ‘EXTRAIT HYDROALCOOLIQUE (36.3 % V/V) SÉCHÉ DE VALÉRIANE  (VALERIANA OFFICINALIS L. RADIX)’ OR ‘GETROCKNETER HYDROALKOHOLISCHER BALDRIAN  AUSZUG (VALERIANA OFFICINALIS L. RADIX)’ OR ‘DRY EXTRACT VALERIAN ROOT’ OR ‘VALERIANAE  RADICIS EXTRACTUM SICCUM’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS BALDRIANWURZEL’ OR ‘SUCHÝ EXTRAKT Z  KOREŇA VALERIÁNY LEKÁRSKEJ’ OR ‘TINCTURE OF VALERIAN ROOT, EXTRACTION LIQUID: ETHANOL’  OR ‘BALDRIANTINKTUR, AUSZUGSMITTEL: ETHANOL 70 % (V/V)’ OR ‘VALERIANAE RADIX,  EXTRACTUM METHANOLICUM SICCUM’ OR ‘EXTRACTO ETANÓLICO SECO DE RAÍZ DE VALERIANA  OFFICINALIS, L’ OR ‘NALEWKA Z KORZENIA KOZŁKA’ OR ‘VALERIANA, EXTRACT’ OR ‘ESTRATTO DI  VALERIANA’ OR ‘VALERIANAE RADIX’ OR ‘VALERIÁNOVÝ KOREŇ’ OR ‘KORZEŃ KOZŁKA’ OR  ‘VALERIJONŲ ŠAKNYS’ OR ‘VALERIANEROD’ OR ‘BALDRIĀNA TINKTŪRA’ OR ‘VALERIAN’ OR  ‘VALERIANE’ OR ‘VALERIANA’ OR ‘BALDRIANWURZEL -TROCKENEXTRAKT’ OR ‘SUCHY WYCIĄG Z  KORZENIA KOZŁKA’ OR ‘BALDRIĀNA SAKŅU SAUSAIS EKSTRAKTS’ OR ‘MACSKAGYÖKÉR SZÁRÍTOTT  NATÍV KIVONATA’ OR ‘VALERIANAE RAD. EXTR. SPIR. SICC.’ OR ‘EXTRACTO SECO DE RAÍZ DE  VALERIANA OFFICINALIS (VALERIANA)’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS BALDRIANWURZELN’ OR  ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS BALDRIANWURZEL’ OR ‘VALERIANAE DRY EXTRACT HYDROALCOHOLIC’ OR  ‘WYCIĄG WODNO -ALKOHOLOWY Z KORZENIA KOZŁKA’ OR ‘VALERIANAE EXTRACTUM  HYDROALCOHOLICUM SICCUM’ OR ‘MIT WÄßRIG -ALKOHOLISCHEN MISCHUNGEN HERGESTELLTER  BALDRIANTROCKENEXTRAKT’ OR ‘VALERIANAE RADICIS TINCTURA (1:4,0 -4,5)’ OR ‘EXTRACTUM  FLUIDUM EX: CRATAEGI FRUCTU ET VALERIANAE RADICE’ OR ‘VALERIANAE TINCTURA’ OR ‘EXTR. FL.  (1:1) EX: CRATAEGI FR. (36 PARTS), VALERIANAE RAD.(36 PARTS), LUPULI STROB. (18 PARTS),  PASSIFLORAE HERBA (10 PARTS)’ OR ‘INFUSION VALERIAN CONC. BPC 1963’ OR ‘INTRAKT Z  KORZENIA KOZŁKA LEKARSKIEGO’ OR ‘SUHI VODNOETANOLNI EKSTRAKT KORENINE ZDRAVILNE  ŠPAJKE (3 6 : 1) EKSTRAKCIJSKO TOPILO 70 -ODSTOTNI (V/V) ETANOL’ OR ‘EXTRACTUM  COMPOSITUM (1:2) EX: VALERIANAE RADICE, ANGELICAE RADICE, MELISSAE HERBA, LUPULI FLORE,  LAVANDULAE FLORE’ OR ‘WYCIĄG ZŁOŻONY (1:2) Z: KORZENIA KOZŁKA,KORZENIA  ARCYDZIĘGLA,ZIELA MELISY,SZYSZEK CHMIELU,KWIATU LAWENDY’ OR ‘BALDRIANWURZEL -PULVER’  OR ‘RAIZ DE VALERIANA EM PO’ OR ‘POLVERE DI RADICE DI VALERIANA’ OR ‘VALERIANAE  EXTRACTUM SICCUM’ OR ‘TINCTURE FROM VALERIAN ROOT/MOTHERWORT HERB/HOP  STROBILE/PEPPERMINT LEAF (3/3/2/2) 1:5’ OR ‘TINKTŪRA (1:5) IŠ VALERIJONŲ ŠAKNŲ /  SUKATŽOLIŲ ŽOLĖS / APYNIŲ SPURGŲ / PIPIRMĖČIŲ LAPŲ (3/3/2/2).’ OR ‘ACIDUM PHOSPHORICUM  COMPLEXE N°5’:tn OR ‘ALLUNADOC’:tn OR ‘ANTI STRESS N ENTSPANNUNGSBAD’:tn OR ‘ANTI - STRESS’:tn OR ‘AP VIII’:tn OR ‘ARISTOCHOL’:tn OR ‘ARKOCAPSULE VALERIANA’:tn OR ‘ASA FOETIDA  PENTARKAN’:tn OR ‘AURUM VALERIANA’:tn OR ‘AURUMHEEL N TROPFEN’:tn OR ‘AURUMHEEL - TROPFEN’:tn OR ‘AVENA COMP.’:tn OR ‘AVENA VALERIANA’:tn OR ‘BALDORM’:tn OR ‘BALDRIAN’:tn OR  ‘BALDRIAN -DISPERT’:tn OR ‘BALDRIAN -DRAGEES’:tn OR ‘BALDRIAN -HOPFEN’:tn OR ‘BALDRIAN - KRÄUTERTROPFEN’:tn OR ‘BALDRIAN -RATIOPHARM’:tn OR ‘BALDRIAN -SEDATIVBAD N’:tn OR  ‘BALDRIAN -TROPFEN’:tn OR ‘BALDRIAN -TROPFEN BIO -DIÄT’:tn OR ‘BALDRIANWURZEL’:tn OR  ‘BALDRIMED’:tn OR ‘BALDRIĀNA TINKTŪRA’:tn OR ‘BALDURAT’:tn OR ‘BENOSEN’:tn OR  ‘BERUHIGUNGS DRAGEES MIT BALDRIAN HOPFEN N’:tn OR ‘BERUHIGUNGS UND EINSCHLAFTEE’:tn  OR ‘BERUHIGUNGS -TEE’:tn OR ‘BERUHIGUNGS -TROPFEN’:tn OR ‘BERUHIGUNGSTEE’:tn OR  ‘BERUHIGUNGSTEE VII’:tn OR ‘BIOCARDE’:tn OR ‘BIOSEDON ’:tn OR ‘BODIVAL H’:tn OR ‘BRONCHOFIT  EFEU’:tn OR ‘BRONCHOLITAN’:tn OR ‘CALM LIFE’:tn OR ‘CALMEDORON’:tn OR ‘CALMIKIND’:tn OR  ‘CALMIPLANT’:tn OR ‘CALMVALERA’:tn OR ‘CALMY’:tn OR ‘CARDIOL’:tn OR ‘CARMITANTA’:tn OR  ‘CIRCOSAN’:tn OR ‘CIRKUSED’:tn OR ‘COENRELAX’:tn OR ‘CORSELECT’:tn OR ‘CUPRUM ACETICUM /  ZINCUM VALERIANICUM’:tn OR ‘DIACARD’:tn OR ‘DOLESTAN’:tn OR ‘DORMICALM’:tn OR ‘DORMIDINA  VALERIANA/LUPULO’:tn OR ‘DORMIKIND’:tn OR ‘DORMIPLANT’:tn OR ‘DORMOSYX’:tn OR ‘DRAGEES  BALDRIAN & HOPFEN’:tn OR ‘DYSTO -LOGES N’:tn OR ‘EINSCHLAF -DRAGEES’:tn OR ‘EINSCHLAF - KAPSELN’:tn OR ‘EUPHYTOSE’:tn OR ‘EURIMISK’:tn OR ‘EUVEGAL’:tn OR ‘EXIGAN’:tn OR ‘EXTRACTO  DE VALERIANA’ OR ‘EXTRASPASMINA’:tn OR ‘GLICEROVALEROVIT’:tn OR ‘GOLDEN SEAL  DIGESTIVE’:tn OR ‘GUTNACHT -KRÄUTERTEE’:tn OR ‘HARPAGOFORTE’:tn OR ‘HEDELIX’:tn OR ‘HELIX  AIWA’:tn OR ‘HEPACYN FRISCHPFLANZEN -ARTISCHOCKE’:tn OR ‘HERBAL SLEEP’:tn OR ‘HOVA’:tn OR  ‘HYOSCYAMUS / VALERIANA WELEDA’:tn OR ‘HYPERFORAT NERVOHOM’:tn OR ‘INVERMA’:tn OR  ‘KINDINORM’:tn OR ‘KINDIVAL’:tn OR ‘KNEIPP BALDRIAN’:tn OR ‘KNEIPP SCHLAF GUT BALDRIAN’:tn     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 296/368   OR ‘KNEIPP  NERVEN - & SCHLAF TEE’:tn OR ‘KOZL ÍK’:tn OR ‘KROPLE WALERIANOWE’:tn OR ‘KROPLE  ŻOŁĄDKOWE’:tn OR ‘KROPLE ŻOŁĄDKOWE FORTE’:tn OR ‘L72’:tn OR ‘LEGALON’:tn OR  ‘LIQUIDORM’:tn OR ‘LIVETAN’:tn OR ‘LUNAFINI’:tn OR ‘LUPULINUM N’:tn OR ‘LUVASED MONO’:tn OR  ‘LUVASED NACHT ZUM EINSCHLAFEN’:tn OR ‘MELISSEN -KAPSELN’:tn OR ‘MELIVAL’:tn OR ‘MENO’:tn  OR ‘MORADORM BERUHIGUNG BALDRIAN’:tn OR ‘NACHTRUHE EINSCHLAF’:tn OR ‘NACHTRUHE  EINSCHLAFTROPFEN’:tn OR ‘NALEWKA KOZŁKOWA’:tn OR ‘NAPIERS SWEET DREAMS SLEEP  REMEDY’:tn OR ‘NEOCARDINA ’:tn OR ‘NEOPERSEN’:tn OR ‘NEOSPASMINA’:tn OR ‘NERVEN -DRAGEES  MIT BALDRIAN’:tn OR ‘NERVENBERUHIGUNGS -TEE’:tn OR ‘NERVENRUH’:tn OR ‘NERVIKÁN’:tn OR  ‘NERVINAE PLANTA’:tn OR ‘NERVOHEEL’:tn OR ‘NERVOID’:tn OR ‘NERVOLEK’:tn OR ‘NERVOMIX  FORTE’:tn OR ‘NERVOREGIN COMP. H PFLÜGER’:tn OR ‘NERVOSAN FIX’:tn OR ‘NERVOSOL’:tn OR  ‘NETISUM 150MG/100 MG CÁPSULAS’:tn OR ‘NETISUM FORTE CÁPSULAS’:tn OR ‘NEURAPAS’:tn OR  ‘NEUREXAN’:tn OR ‘NEURO -GINSAN’:tn OR ‘NEURO -INJEEL’:tn OR ‘NEUROL’:tn OR ‘NIERAL’:tn OR  ‘NIGHT’:tn OR ‘NORMOVAL’:tn OR ‘NOTTA’:tn OR ‘NOVO -PASSIT’:tn OR ‘NOVO -PASSIT SOLUTION’:tn  OR ‘OXACANT SEDATIV’:tn OR ‘PASCONAL’:tn OR ‘PASSIDRIAN’:tn OR ‘PECTAPAS’:tn OR ‘PERSEN’:tn  OR ‘PERTUSSIN’:tn OR ‘PFLÜGER FRAUENTONIKUM’:tn OR ‘PFLÜGERPLEX ANACARDIUM 185’:tn OR  ‘PHYTONOCTU’:tn OR ‘PHYTOSEDUM’:tn OR ‘PHÖNIX FERRUM’:tn OR ‘PHÖNIX PHÖNOMIGRAL’:tn OR  ‘PHÖNIX PLUMBUM’:tn OR ‘POTTERS EXTRACALM MIXTURE’:tn OR ‘POTTERS NODOFF PLUS  MIXTURE’:tn OR ‘QUIET NIGHT’:tn OR ‘RAMEND ABFÜHRTEE INSTANT N’:tn OR ‘RAMEVAL’:tn OR  ‘REDORMIN’:tn OR ‘RELANA’:tn OR ‘RELAXINE’:tn OR ‘REMIFEMIN PLUS’:tn OR ‘ROBUCOR’:tn OR  ‘SCHLAFSTERNE BMP’:tn OR ‘SCHWEDENBITTER’:tn OR ‘SEDA -ORTHIM’:tn OR ‘SEDACALMAN’:tn OR  ‘SEDACUR FORTE’:tn OR ‘SEDAKATT’:tn OR ‘SEDANTA’:tn OR ‘SEDARISTON’:tn OR ‘SEDASELECT’:tn  OR ‘SEDATIVA’:tn OR ‘SEDOMIX’:tn OR ‘SEDONAT’:tn OR ‘SEDONIUM’:tn OR ‘SEDOPUER F’:tn OR  ‘SELON’:tn OR ‘SENNA PLUS’:tn OR ‘SENOSPASMINA’:tn OR ‘SIRDS PILIENI VALENTIS’:tn OR  ‘SIRDSDARBĪBU UZLABOJOŠI PILIENI VALENTIS’:tn OR ‘SLEEP AID’:tn OR ‘SLEEPEEZY’:tn OR  ‘SOMNIDORON’:tn OR ‘SONGHA NATT’:tn OR ‘SONGHA NIGHT’:tn OR ‘SONGHA YÖ/NATT’:tn OR  ‘SPASMINE’:tn OR ‘STRAMONIUM PENTARKAN’:tn OR ‘STRESSLESS’:tn OR ‘TEUFELSKRALLE  QUEISSER’:tn OR ‘THÜRINGER BALDRIANTINKTUR’:tn OR ‘TINCTURA VALERIANAE’:tn OR ‘TONDINEL  H’:tn OR ‘TRANQUIGOR’:tn OR ‘TRANQUITAL’:tn OR ‘TROPFEN GEGEN NERVÖSE  HERZBESCHWERDEN’:tn OR ‘USUCOR’:tn OR ‘VALDISPERT’:tn OR ‘VALDRIN K&P’:tn OR  ‘VALEMONT’:tn OR ‘VALENAT’:tn OR ‘VALERIAN’:tn OR ‘VALERIANA’:tn OR ‘VALERIANA -TEVA’:tn OR  ‘VALERIANAHEEL’:tn OR ‘VALERIJONŲ ŠAKNYS ŠVF’:tn OR ‘VALERIN FORTE’:tn OR ‘VALERIN MAX’:tn  OR ‘VALERINA’:tn OR ‘VALEVIT’:tn OR ‘VALIAN’:tn OR ‘VALMANE’:tn OR ‘VALMONAL’:tn OR  ‘VALUHERB’:tn OR ‘VALUSED’:tn OR ‘VIVINOX DAY’:tn OR ‘VIVINOX NIGHT’:tn OR ‘WÖRISHOFENER  DARMDRAGEES’:tn OR ‘ZAPPELIN’:tn OR ‘ZEĻEŅINA PILIENI’:tn OR ‘ZINCUM VALERIANICUM’:tn OR  ‘ZVC’:tn OR ‘BALDRIPARAN’:tn OR ‘BLACKMORES VALERIAN FORTE’:tn OR ‘DORMEASAN’:tn OR  ‘NEURAPAS BALANCE’:tn OR ‘VALERIAL’:tn OR ‘VALVERDE BALDRIAN HOPFEN’:tn OR ‘VALVERDE  SCHLAF’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   311.  Hypericum   ‘HYPERICUM’ OR ‘JOHANNESÖRT’ OR ‘ST JOHNS WORT’ OR ‘MILLEPERTUIS’ OR ‘PERIKON’ OR  ‘JOHANNISKRAUTPULVER’ OR ‘HYPERICI HERBA’ OR ‘HERBA HYPERICI’ OR ‘JONAŽOLIŲ ŽOLĖ’ OR  ‘HYPERICI HERBA’ OR ‘JOHANNISKRAUT’ OR ‘HYPERICI EXTRACTUM SICCUM’ OR ‘SINT -JANSKRUID,  DROOG EXTRAKT’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS JOHANNISKRAUT’ OR ‘HYPERICI HERBA EXTRACTUM’  OR ‘WYCIĄG Z DZIURAWCA’ OR ‘HYPERICI HERBAE TINCTURA’ OR ‘QUANTIFIZIERTER     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 297/368   JOHANNISKRAUTTROCKENEXTRAKT’ OR ‘WYCIĄG SUCHY Z ZIELA Z DZIURAWCA’ OR ‘TORRT EXTRAKT  AV HYPERICUM PERFORATUM L., HERBA (JOHANNESÖRT)’ OR ‘DROOG EXTRACT VAN HYPERICUM  PERFORATUM L.[SINT JANSKRUID]’ OR ‘ESTRATTO SECCO DI HYPERICUM PERFORATUM L.’ OR  ‘EKSTRAKT (SOM TØREKSTRAKT) AF HYPERICUM PERFORATUM L., HERBA (PERIKON)’ OR ‘AKTIVIN - H’:tn OR ‘ALVISAN’:tn OR ‘ARKOCAPSULAS HIPÉRICO’:tn OR ‘ARKOGELULES MILLEPERTUIS’:tn OR  ‘ARNICA COMPLEXE N°1’:tn OR ‘AURUM/APIS REGINA COMP.’:tn OR ‘BERBERIS/HYPERICUM COMP.’:tn  OR ‘BETTERMOOD’:tn OR ‘CALMIGEN’:tn OR ‘CALMIGEN 300’:tn OR ‘CAMPHORA/HYPERICUM’:tn OR  ‘CEFAKLIMAN N’:tn OR ‘CESRADYSTON’:tn OR ‘CICADERMA’:tn OR ‘DEPRESTOP’:tn OR ‘DEPRIM’:tn OR  ‘DIMO’:tn OR ‘DR. BÖHM JOHANNISKRAUT FORTE’:tn OR ‘DR. BÖHM ORBÁNCFU’:tn OR ‘DR. BÖHM   JOHANNISKRAUT’:tn OR ‘DZIURAWIEC FIX’:tn OR ‘ELUSANES MILLEPERTUIS’:tn OR  ‘EUPHYPERTUIS’:tn OR ‘FELIS’:tn OR ‘FYTOKLIMAN’:tn OR ‘GLOBULI GEGEN SONNENALLERGIE’:tn OR  ‘GOOD MOOD’:tn OR ‘HEPATOSAN FIX’:tn OR ‘HERBAL MOOD RELIEF’:tn OR ‘HERBAL ST. JOHNS  WORT’:tn OR ‘HERBANEURIN’:tn OR ‘HEWEPSYCHON’:tn OR ‘HIPCEDAN’:tn OR ‘HIPERATUM’:tn OR  ‘HYPERFORAT TAB’:tn OR ‘HYPERFORAT VITAHOM’:tn OR ‘HYPERICAPS’:tn OR ‘HYPERICUM’:tn OR  ‘HYPERICUM, FLOS’:tn OR ‘HYPERICUM, HERBA’:tn OR ‘HYPERICUM -SCHWABE’:tn OR ‘HYPERIFORCE  NOVA’:tn OR ‘HYPERIKAN’:tn OR ‘HYPERIPLANT’:tn OR ‘IRO -TROPFEN IRO -TROPFEN’:tn OR  ‘JARSIN’:tn OR ‘JO -SABONA ’:tn OR ‘JOHANICUM’:tn OR ‘JOHANNISKRAUT’:tn OR ‘JOHANNISKRAUT - RATIOPHARM’:tn OR ‘JOHANNISKRAUTTEE’:tn OR ‘KALIUM PHOSPHORICUM N OLIGOPLEX’:tn OR  ‘KAMPFER’:tn OR ‘KIRA’:tn OR ‘KNEIPP  JOHANNISKRAUT TEE’:tn OR ‘L.01 -STW’:tn OR ‘LAIF’:tn OR  ‘LEMUR KAPSELN’:tn OR ‘LEVICO COMP.’:tn OR ‘MALVENÖL’:tn OR ‘MILDAC’:tn OR ‘MILPERINOL’:tn OR  ‘MODIGEN’:tn OR ‘MULIMEN’:tn OR ‘MYRALL’:tn OR ‘NERVAXON’:tn OR ‘NERVOREGIN H TABLETTEN’:tn  OR ‘NEUROKAN’:tn OR ‘NEUROPLANT’:tn OR ‘NEUROVEGETALIN’:tn OR ‘NOXOM S’:tn OR ‘PACIFA’:tn  OR ‘PERIKA’:tn OR ‘PHÖNIX ANTITOX’:tn OR ‘POSITIVUM’:tn OR ‘PRIMULA’:tn OR ‘PROCALMIL’:tn OR  ‘PROSOFT’:tn OR ‘PSYCHOTONIN’:tn OR ‘QUIENS’:tn OR ‘R30’:tn OR ‘REPISAN’:tn OR ‘SE HYPERICUM  N’:tn OR ‘SEDOSANIT ’:tn OR ‘SENSIOTIN’:tn OR ‘SILENIL’:tn OR ‘SPILAN’:tn OR ‘ST JOHNS WORT’:tn  OR ‘STOMARAN’:tn OR ‘TEXX’:tn OR ‘TONICO -INJEEL’:tn OR ‘TRAUMEEL’:tn OR ‘TROPFEN BEI  VERLETZUNGEN’:tn OR ‘TROPFEN GEGEN SONNENALLERGIE’:tn OR ‘TURINEURIN’:tn OR ‘UCALM’:tn  OR ‘VELZINA’:tn OR ‘ZIBRINE FORTE’:tn OR ‘ZIELE DZIURAWCA’:tn OR ‘ŠENTJANŽEVKA  APOMEDICA’:tn OR ‘DEPRIM’:tn OR ‘HELARIUM’:tn OR ‘HYPERIPLANT’:tn OR ‘HYPERVAL’:tn OR  ‘JARSIN’:tn OR ‘JOHANNISKRAUT’:tn OR ‘KIRA’:tn OR ‘LUCILIUM’:tn OR ‘REBALANCE’:tn OR  ‘REMOTIV’:tn OR ‘SOLEVITA FORTE’:tn OR ‘TRAUMEEL’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 298/368   312.  Eucalyptus   ‘DISTILLATE OF A MIXTURE OF RECTIFIED EUCALYPTUS OIL, RECTIFIED SWEET ORANGE OIL,  RECTIFIED MYRTLE OIL AND RECTIFIED LEMON OIL’ OR ‘DESTILLAT AUS EINER MISCHUNG VON  REKTIFIZIERTEM EUCALYPTUSÖL UND REKTIFIZIERTEM SÜßORANGENÖL’ OR ‘EUCALYPTUS OIL’ OR  ‘EUCALYPTUS ESSENTIAL OIL’ OR ‘EUCALYPTI ETHEROLEUM’ OR ‘EUCALYPTI AETHEROLEUM’ OR  ‘EUCALYPTUSÖL’ OR ‘EUKALYPTUSOLJA’ OR ‘EUKALYPTOVÁ SILICA’ OR ‘EUCALYPTI AETHEROLEUM’ OR  ‘ULEI DE EUCALIPT’ OR ‘ÓLEO DE EUCALIPTO’ OR ‘OLEJEK ETERYCZNY EUKALIPTUSOWY’ OR ‘OLEJEK  EUKALIPTUSOWY’ OR ‘ESSENTIËLE OLIE VAN EUCALYPTUS’ OR ‘EUCALYPTUSOLIE’ OR ‘EIKALIPTA  EĻĻA’ OR ‘EIKALIPTA ĒTERISKĀ EĻĻA’ OR ‘EUKALIPTŲ ETERINIS ALIEJUS’ OR ‘EUKALIPTŲ ALIEJUS’ OR  ‘EUCALYPTI AETHEROLEUM’ OR ‘OLIO DI EUCALIPTO’ OR ‘EUKALYPTUSOLÍA’ OR ‘EUKALIPTUSZOLAJ’  OR ‘EUKALIPTUSOVO ETERIČNO ULJE’ OR ‘HUILE ESSENTIELLE EUCALYPTUS’ OR ‘HUILE ESSENTIELLE  DEUCALYPTUS’ OR ‘EUCALYPTUS (HUILE ESSENTIELLE D)’ OR ‘EUCALYPTUS’ OR ‘EUKALÜPTIÕLI’ OR  ‘ACEITE DE EUCALIPTUS’ OR ‘ACEITE ESENCIAL DE EUCALIPTO’:tn OR ‘ACEITE ESENCIAL DE  EUCALIPTO’:tn OR ‘EUKALYPTUSÖL’:tn OR ‘EUKALYPTUS ATHERISCHES OL’:tn OR ‘EUCALYPTUSÖL’:tn  OR ‘BLAHOVIČNÍKOVÁ SILICE’:tn OR ‘EUKALYPTOVÝ OLEJ’:tn OR ‘EUCALYPTUS TINCTURE’:tn OR  ‘EIKALIPTA TINKTŪRA’:tn OR ‘EUCALYPTUS FLAVOUR’:tn OR ‘ESSENZA EUCALIPTOLO’:tn OR ‘AROMA  EUCALIPTO’:tn OR ‘EUKALYPTUSAROMI’:tn OR ‘EUKALYPTUS -AROMA’:tn OR ‘EUCALYPTUS  SMAGSSTOFFER’:tn OR ‘EUCALYPTUS GLOBULUS’:tn OR ‘ACONITUM -HOMACCORD’:tn OR  ‘ACONITUM/CHINA COMP.’:tn OR ‘ACTIVOX’:tn OR ‘AFLUBIN’:tn OR ‘ANOVIN PFLÜGER’:tn OR  ‘ARGENTUM NITRICUM COMP.’:tn OR ‘ARNICA -HEEL’:tn OR ‘ARZNEIBAD ERKÄLTUNG MIT EUCALYPTUS  AB’:tn OR ‘ARZNEIBAD EUCALYPTUS’:tn OR ‘ASPECTON’:tn OR ‘BABY CHEST RUB’:tn OR  ‘BALSOFUMINE MENTHOLEE’:tn OR ‘BALSOFUMINE SIMPLE’:tn OR ‘BOLUS EUCALYPTI COMP’:tn OR  ‘BRONCHIAL -HUSTEN -SIRUP’:tn OR ‘BRONCHOFORTON’:tn OR ‘BRONCHOLIND’:tn OR  ‘BRONCHOMED’:tn OR ‘BRYONIA COSMOPLEX N’:tn OR ‘CATARRH PASTILLES’:tn OR ‘CETRARIA  ISLANDICA N OLIGOPLEX’:tn OR ‘CHESTY COUGH’:tn OR ‘DAMPO VERKOUDHEIDSBALSEM’:tn OR  ‘DEEP HEAT’:tn OR ‘DEPULOL’:tn OR ‘DERHOTILL’:tn OR ‘DIP HOT’:tn OR ‘DOLIRHUME’:tn OR ‘DR.  THEISS EUCALIPIN’:tn OR ‘ECHINACEA’:tn OR ‘EIKALIPTA TINKTŪRA’:tn OR ‘EKC -BAD’:tn OR  ‘EPICUTANTEST -TROLAB D1353’:tn OR ‘ERKÄLTUNGS BAD’:tn OR ‘ERKÄLTUNGS BALSAM’:tn OR  ‘ERKÄLTUNGS KAPSELN’:tn OR ‘ERKÄLTUNGS -BALSAM N’:tn OR ‘ERKÄLTUNGS -ÖLBAD’:tn OR  ‘ERKÄLTUNGSTROPFEN’:tn OR ‘EUCABAL -BALSAM S’:tn OR ‘EUCALYPTUS COMP.’:tn OR ‘EUCALYPTUS  OIL’:tn OR ‘EUCALYPTUS -MONO’:tn OR ‘EUCALYPTUSÖL’:tn OR ‘EUKALYPTOL’:tn OR  ‘EUKALYPTUSÖL’:tn OR ‘EUPATORIUM PENTARKAN’:tn OR ‘EUPHONYLL EXPECTORANT’:tn OR  ‘EUVANOL INHALATION’:tn OR ‘FOMENTIL’:tn OR ‘GASTROFUNKTEN’:tn OR ‘GELODURAT’:tn OR  ‘GELOMYRTOL’:tn OR ‘GRIPPOSTAD MILD’:tn OR ‘GRIPPS’:tn OR ‘HEAT’:tn OR ‘HUSTEN UND  BRONCHIAL -TROPFEN’:tn OR ‘HUSTEN - UND BRONCHIALTROPFEN’:tn OR ‘ILON’:tn OR ‘INFI - EUPATORIUM’:tn OR ‘INFLUDO’:tn OR ‘INFLUDORON’:tn OR ‘JACKSONS VAPOUR RUB’:tn OR ‘JUNIOR  VAPOUR RUB’:tn OR ‘JUNIPERUS N OLIGOPLEX’:tn OR ‘JUNIPERUS/BERBERIS COMP.’:tn OR  ‘KINDERBAD’:tn OR ‘KNEIPP ERKÄLTUNGSBAD’:tn OR ‘L52’:tn OR ‘LINIPLANT’:tn OR ‘LUUF  GUAIFENESIN COMPOSITUM BRONCHIAL - UND HUSTENTEE’:tn OR ‘MAJORANA’:tn OR  ‘MEDIZINALBAD’:tn OR ‘MEDIZINISCHER BADEZUSATZ ERKÄLTUNG’:tn OR ‘MEDIZINISCHER  ERKÄLTUNGSBALSAM INTENSIV’:tn OR ‘MEDIZINISCHES ERKÄLTUNGS BAD’:tn OR ‘MENTHOL AND  EUCALYPTUS INHALATION BP 1980’:tn OR ‘MEROCETS PLUS’:tn OR ‘MIRAMILE’:tn OR ‘MUCOPLANT  DR. THEISS EUKALIPTUSZ’:tn OR ‘MUCOPLANT EUCALYPTUS’:tn OR ‘MUCOPLANT EUKALIPTUSOVA  MAST’:tn OR ‘MUCOPLANT EUKALYPTOVÝ BALZÁM’:tn OR ‘MUCUS COUGH’:tn OR ‘MUSCLE PAIN  RELIEF’:tn OR ‘MUSCLE RUB’:tn OR ‘MYRTOL’:tn OR ‘NASENBALSAM’:tn OR ‘NASENÖL’:tn OR  ‘NASIRUS FORTE’:tn OR ‘NAZINETTE DU DOCTEUR GILBERT’:tn OR ‘NEO -CAPSIDERM’:tn OR ‘NUMARK  VAPOUR RUB’:tn OR ‘OLEUM CAMPHORATUM COMP.’:tn OR ‘PASTILLES MÉDICINALES’:tn OR  ‘PFLÜGERPLEX ACONITUM 113’:tn OR ‘PFLÜGERPLEX DROSERA 321’:tn OR ‘PINIMENTHOL’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 299/368   ‘PLANTAGO’:tn OR ‘PULMEX’:tn OR ‘PULMOTIN  INHALAT’:tn OR ‘PULMOTIN ’:tn OR ‘RATANHIA  COMP.’:tn OR ‘RETTERSPITZ ERKÄLTUNGSTROPFEN’:tn OR ‘RHEUMA BADEKONZENTRAT’:tn OR  ‘RHEUMA SALBE TRIPLEX’:tn OR ‘RHEUMA -SPEZIALBAD’:tn OR ‘RINOGĒLS’:tn OR ‘RUB -AROM’:tn OR  ‘SALVIATHYMOL’:tn OR ‘SANOPINWERN FÜR KINDER AB 2 JAHRE UND ERWACHSENE’:tn OR ‘SANTA  BRONCHIAL’:tn OR ‘SCHMERZ - UND RHEUMA -SALBE INTENSIV’:tn OR ‘SCHNUPFENCREME’:tn OR  ‘SCOTTOPECT’:tn OR ‘SINOBRONCHIAL’:tn OR ‘SNUFFLEBABE’:tn OR ‘TERPONE’:tn OR ‘TONSAN’:tn OR  ‘TRANSPULMIN ERKÄLTUNGSBALSAM FÜR KINDER’:tn OR ‘TRANSPULMIN S’:tn OR ‘TROLAB E1353’:tn  OR ‘TROPHIRES’:tn OR ‘TUSSIDERMIL’:tn OR ‘TUSSISTIN’:tn OR ‘VALVERDE ERKAELTUNG’:tn OR  ‘VAPORIL’:tn OR ‘VAPORUB’:tn OR ‘VAPOUR CHEST’:tn OR ‘AFLUBIN’:tn OR ‘BRONCHOMED’:tn OR  ‘DEEP HEAT’:tn OR ‘GELOMYRTOL’:tn OR ‘MENTHOLATUM DEEP HEAT RUB’:tn OR ‘VICKS VAPORUB’:tn  AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR  misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp  OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   313.  Mentha   ‘LEVOMENTHOL’ OR ‘L -MENTHOL’ OR ‘LEVOMENTHOLUM’ OR ‘LEVOMENTHOLUM.’ OR ‘L -MENTOL’ OR  ‘LEWOMENTOLU’ OR ‘LEWOMENTOL.’ OR ‘LEWOMENTOL’ OR ‘LEVOMENTOLS’ OR ‘LEVOMENTOLU’ OR  ‘LEVOMENTOLIO’ OR ‘LEVOMENTOLIS.’ OR ‘LEVOMENTOLIS’ OR ‘LEVOMENTOLO’ OR ‘LEVOMENTOLO.’  OR ‘LÉVOMENTHOL’ OR ‘LÉVO -MENTHOL’ OR ‘LEVOMENTOLI’ OR ‘LEVOMENTHOL’ OR ‘LEVOMENTOOL.’  OR ‘LEVOMENTOOLI’ OR ‘LEVOMENTOOL’ OR ‘LEVOMENTOL.’ OR ‘LEVOMENTHOL.’ OR ‘FENNEL,  BITTER’ OR ‘MINT OIL, PARTLY DEMENTHOLISED’ OR ‘CORNMINT OIL’ OR ‘MENTHAE ARVENSIS  AETHEROLEUM PARTIM MENTHOLUM DEPLETUM’ OR ‘OLEJEK MIĘTY POLNEJ Z OBNIŻONĄ  ZAWARTOŚCIĄ MENTOLU’ OR ‘OLEJEK MIĘTY POLNEJ (Z OBNIŻONA ZAWARTOŚCIĄ MENTOLU)’ OR  ‘GEDEELTELIJKE GEDEMENTHOLISEERDE MUNTOLIE’ OR ‘IŠ DALIES DEMENTOLIZUOTO DIRVINIŲ  MĖTŲ ETERINIO ALIEJAUS’ OR ‘MENTHAE ARVENSIS AETHEROLEUM PARTIM MENTHOLI PRIVUM’ OR  ‘MENTHA ARVENSIS (HUILE ESSENTIELLE PARTIELLEMENT DÉMENTHOLÉE DE)’ OR ‘MYNTEOLIE,  DELVIST DEMENTOLISERET’ OR ‘MENTHAE PIPERITAE FOLIUM’ OR ‘PEPERMUNTBLAD’ OR ‘PIPIRMĖČIŲ  LAPAI’ OR ‘MENTHAE PIPERITAE FOLIUM’ OR ‘FEUILLE DE MENTHE POIVRÉE’ OR  ‘PFEFFERMINZBLÄTTER’ OR ‘PFEFFERMINZBLÄTTER -TROCKENEXTRAKT (3,5 -5,0:1)’ OR ‘MENTHOL’ OR  ‘MENTOL’ OR ‘MENTHOLUM’ OR ‘MENTOL’ OR ‘MENTOL’ OR ‘MENTOL’ OR ‘MENTHOL’ OR ‘MENTOLS’ OR  ‘MENTOLIS’ OR ‘MENTHOLUM’ OR ‘MENTOLO’ OR ‘MENTÓL’ OR ‘MENTOL’ OR ‘MENTHOL’ OR ‘MENTOLI’  OR ‘MENTOL’ OR ‘MENTHOL’ OR ‘MENTHOL’ OR ‘MENTOL’ OR ‘PEPPERMINT OIL’:tn OR  ‘PFEFFERMINZÖL’:tn OR ‘PEPPERMINTOIL’:tn OR ‘PEPPARMYNTOLJA MITCHAM’:tn OR  ‘PEPPARMYNTSOLJA’:tn OR ‘ETERIČNO OLJE POPROVE METE’:tn OR ‘SILICA MÄTY PIEPORNEJ’:tn OR  ‘ULEI DE MENTA’:tn OR ‘ÓLEO DE HORTELÃ -PIMENTA’:tn OR ‘OLEJEK MIĘTOWY’:tn OR ‘OLEJEK MIĘTY     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 300/368   PIEPRZOWEJ’:tn OR ‘PEPPERMYNTEOLJE’:tn OR ‘PEPERMUNTOLIE’:tn OR ‘PIPARMĒTRU EĻĻA’:tn OR  ‘PIPIRMĖČIŲ ALIEJAUS’:tn OR ‘PIPIRMĖČIŲ ALIEJUS’:tn OR ‘OLIO DI MENTA PIPERITA’:tn OR  ‘BORSOSMENTA OLAJ’:tn OR ‘BORSOSMENTAOLAJ’:tn OR ‘BORSMENTAOLAJ’:tn OR ‘ETERIČNO ULJE  PAPRENE METVICE’:tn OR ‘HUILE DE MENTHE POIVRÉE’:tn OR ‘HUILES DE MENTHE’:tn OR  ‘PIPARMINTTUÖLJY’:tn OR ‘PIPARMÜNDIÕLI’:tn OR ‘PEPPER MINT OIL’:tn OR ‘PFEFFERMINZÖL’:tn OR  ‘PEBERMYNTEOLIE’:tn OR ‘SILICE MÁTY PEPRNÉ’:tn OR ‘PEPPERMINT OIL’:tn OR ‘MENTHA  PIPERITA’:tn OR ‘PEPPERMINT’:tn OR ‘PEPPARMINT’:tn OR ‘PEPPERMINT’:tn OR ‘MENTA’:tn OR  ‘PEPERMUNT’:tn OR ‘PIPARMĒTRU’:tn OR ‘MENTA’:tn OR ‘PIPARMINTU’:tn OR ‘MENTHE POIVRÉE’:tn OR  ‘PIPARMINTTU’:tn OR ‘MENTA PIPERITA’:tn OR ‘PEBERMYNTE’:tn OR ‘MINT ESSENTIAL OIL’:tn OR  ‘OLEJEK ETERYCZNY MIĘTOWY’:tn OR ‘HUILE ESSENTIELLE DE MENTHE’:tn OR ‘ACEITE ESENCIAL DE  MENTA’:tn OR ‘TINCTURE (1:5) OF PEPPERMINT LEAF, BITTER FENNEL AND CHAMOMILE FLOWER (5.8  : 6.4 : 7.9), EXTRACTION LIQUID: ETHANOL 34 % (V/V)’:tn OR ‘TINKTUR (1:5) AUS  PFEFFERMINZBLÄTTERN, BITTERER FENCHEL UND KAMILLENBLÜTEN (5,8 : 6,4 : 7,9),  AUSZUGSMITTEL: ETHANOL 34 % (V/V).’:tn OR ‘MENTHA × PIPERITA L. FOLIUM’:tn OR ‘MENTHAE  PIPERITAE TINCTURA’:tn OR ‘NALEWKA Z MIĘTY PIEPRZOWEJ’:tn OR ‘PIPARMĒTRU LAPU  TINKTŪRA’:tn OR ‘PIPARMĒTRAS TINKTŪRA’:tn OR ‘PIPIRMĖČIŲ LAPŲ TINKTŪRA’:tn OR ‘MENTHAE  PIPERITAE TINCTURA’:tn OR ‘EXTR. FL. (1:3,3) EX: CHAMOMILLAE ANTH. -18,7; SALVIAE FOL. -18,7;  MILLEFOLII HERBA -18,7; MENTHAE PIP. HERBA -18,7; THYMI HERBA -9,35; FOENICULI FR. -9,35’:tn OR  ‘MINT OIL, DEMENTHOLISED’:tn OR ‘MINTOLJA, AVMENTOLISERAD’:tn OR ‘ESSENTIAL OIL OF  PEPPERMINT’:tn OR ‘MENTHAE PIPERITAE AETHEROLEUM’:tn OR ‘ACEITE ESENCIAL DE MENTHAE  PIPERITAE (MENTA)’:tn OR ‘ESSENTIAL OIL - MENTHA PIPERITA’:tn OR ‘ÆTERISK OLIE FRA  PEBERMYNTE’:tn OR ‘OLIO ESSENZIALE MENTA PIPERITA’:tn OR ‘PEPPARMINTESSENSOLJA’:tn OR  ‘MENTHAE PIPERITAE AETHEROLEUM’:tn OR ‘MENTHAE PIPERITAE ETHEROLEUM’:tn OR ‘ULEI  ESENŢIAL DE MENTĂ’:tn OR ‘ÓLEO ESSENCIAL DE HORTELÃ -PIMENTA’:tn OR ‘PIPARMĒTRU ĒTERISKĀ  EĻĻA’:tn OR ‘PIPIRMĖČIŲ ETERINIS ALIEJUS’:tn OR ‘MENTHAE PIPERITAE AETHEROLEUM’:tn OR  ‘PIPARMINTUOLÍUESSENS’:tn OR ‘HAIHTUVA PIPARMINTTUÖLJY’:tn OR ‘ÄTHERISCHES  PFEFFERMINZÖL’:tn OR ‘MENTHAE ARVENSIS L. VAR. PIPERASCENS MALINV. EX HOLMES,  AETHEROLEUM’:tn OR ‘TINCTURE FROM PEPPERMINT LEAF 1:20’:tn OR ‘MENTHAE PIPERITAE  EXTRACTUM FLUIDUM’:tn OR ‘FLUIDEXTRAKT AUS PFEFFERMINZBLÄTTERN’:tn OR ‘AMOL’:tn OR ‘ANK  SCHMERZCREME’:tn OR ‘APERCAP’:tn OR ‘ARGOL ESSENZA BALSAMICA’:tn OR ‘AROMATOL’:tn OR  ‘CARMENTHIN’:tn OR ‘CHELIDONIUM’:tn OR ‘CHIANA’:tn OR ‘CHIANA -PFEFFERMINZÖL’:tn OR  ‘CHINA’:tn OR ‘CHOLAGOL’:tn OR ‘CHOLANTAKTIV’:tn OR ‘COLOMINTE’:tn OR ‘COLPERMIN’:tn OR  ‘COVONIA VAPOUR DROPS’:tn OR ‘DIVALOL’:tn OR ‘EPICUTANTEST -TROLAB D1358’:tn OR ‘EUCOTOL  HEILPFLANZENÖL’:tn OR ‘EUMARIN’:tn OR ‘EUMINZ’:tn OR ‘FITO – MIX XII FIX’:tn OR ‘GALLENTEE’:tn  OR ‘GALLENTEE I’:tn OR ‘GASTRICHOLAN’:tn OR ‘GASTROSAN FIX’:tn OR ‘GEROLITAN CREME’:tn OR  ‘GOLLAN’:tn OR ‘HEILPFLANZENÖL’:tn OR ‘IBEROGAST’:tn OR ‘JAPANISCHES HEILPFLANZENÖL’:tn OR  ‘JAPANISCHES MINZ -HEILÖL’:tn OR ‘JHP RÖDLER’:tn OR ‘JHP RÖDLER JAPANISCHES MINZÖL’:tn OR  ‘KAMILLOSAN’:tn OR ‘KAMILLOSAN MUND - UND RACHENSPRAY’:tn OR ‘KNEIPP  GALLE - & LEBER  TEE’:tn OR ‘KOLMENTIN’:tn OR ‘KROPLE  MIĘTOWE’:tn OR ‘KROPLE MIĘTOWE’:tn OR ‘KUĽĢA PILIENI  VALENTIS’:tn OR ‘KUŅĢA PILIENI’:tn OR ‘LEBER -GALLE -TEE KRÄUTERTEE NR. 18A’:tn OR ‘LIŚĆ MIĘTY  PIEPRZOWEJ’:tn OR ‘LOCABIOTAL’:tn OR ‘MAGEN UND VERDAUUNGSTEE’:tn OR ‘MAGEN - UND  DARMTEE’:tn OR ‘MEDICALDOC’:tn OR ‘MINTE’:tn OR ‘MINZÖL’:tn OR ‘MIĘTA FIX’:tn OR ‘MONTANA’:tn  OR ‘MULTIPRETTEN’:tn OR ‘NASALE FONO VII HUNGARO -GAL’:tn OR ‘PASCOVENTRAL’:tn OR  ‘PECTORALES PLANTA’:tn OR ‘PFEFFERMINZ HEILÖL’:tn OR ‘PFEFFERMINZ -LYSOFORM’:tn OR  ‘PFEFFERMINZBLÄTTER’:tn OR ‘PFEFFERMINZÖL BRIAL ALLERGEN’:tn OR ‘PHYSIO -JHP’:tn OR  ‘PIPARMĒTRAS TINKTŪRA’:tn OR ‘PROFF SCHMERZ -SALBE’:tn OR ‘RAPHACHOLIN’:tn OR  ‘RAPHACHOLIN C’:tn OR ‘REGAMINT’:tn OR ‘RETTERSPITZ ENTSPANNUNGSÖL’:tn OR ‘RHEUMA’:tn OR  ‘SALVIASEPT’:tn OR ‘SEPTOSAN FIX’:tn OR ‘SPASMO GALLO SANOL N’:tn OR ‘SPIRITUS MENTHAE CUM     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 301/368   SALE’:tn OR ‘SPIROL ’:tn OR ‘TEEMISCHUNG NR. 1’:tn OR ‘TEMPOCOL’:tn OR ‘THÉ SALVAT’:tn OR  ‘TIGER BALM’:tn OR ‘TIGER BALSAM RÖD’:tn OR ‘TIGER BALSAM VIT’:tn OR ‘TOP -SABONA ’:tn OR  ‘TORMENTAN’:tn OR ‘TROLAB E1358’:tn OR ‘UNGUENTUM NASALE’:tn OR ‘VERDAUUNGS -TEE’:tn OR  ‘VERDAUUNGS -TEE N’:tn OR ‘VOCALZONE’:tn OR ‘ČAJ S HEŘMÁNKEM’:tn OR ‘ČAJ S RUMANČEKOM’:tn  OR ‘COLPERMIN’:tn OR ‘LOCABIOTAL’:tn OR ‘MINTEC’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   314.  Plantago   ‘WÄSSRIGER AUSZUG MIT ZUCKER (1:1) AUS 0,7 G PLANTAGO LANCEOLATA, FOLIUM REC.’ OR  ‘PLANTAGINIS LANCEOLATAE FOLIUM EXTRACTUM FLUIDUM’ OR ‘PLANTAGINIS LANCEOLATAE FOLIUM  EXTRACTUM FLUIDUM’ OR ‘PRESSED JUICE FROM FRESH RIBWORT PLANTAIN HERB’ OR ‘PLANTAGO  LANCEOLATA’ OR ‘ENGLISH PLANTAIN’ OR ‘RIBWORT PLANTAIN’ OR ‘BABKA LANCETOWATA’ OR  ‘WEEGBREE’ OR ‘LANCIUOLA’ OR ‘PLANTAIN LANCÉOLÉ’ OR ‘LLANTÉN MENOR’ OR ‘SPITZWEGERICH’  OR ‘WEGERICH’ OR ‘TEKUTÝ SKOROCELOVÝ EXTRAKT’ OR ‘EXTRACT FLUID DE PĂTLAGINĂ’ OR  ‘PLANTAGO SEED’ OR ‘PLANTAIN SEEDS’ OR ‘CEĻTEKA’ OR ‘PLANTAGINIS LANCEOLATAE FOLIUM’ OR  ‘PLANTAGINIS LANCEOLATAE FOLIUM’ OR ‘SPITZWEGERICHKRAUT’ OR ‘SPITZWEGERICHBLÄTTER’ OR  ‘PLANTAGINIS OVATAE SEMEN’ OR ‘PLANTAGINIS OVATAE SEMEN’ OR ‘PLANTAGO LANCEOLATAE  FOLIUM DRY EXTRACT’ OR ‘PLANTAIN POLLEN’ OR ‘PYŁEK BABKI’ OR ‘PLANTAIN POLLEN’ OR  ‘WEGERICHPOLLEN’ OR ‘PLANTAIN POLLEN EXTRACT’ OR ‘PLANTAIN POLLEN EXTRACT’ OR ‘EXTRAKT  AUS SPITZWEGERICHPOLLEN’ OR ‘SIAURALAPIŲ GYSLOČIŲ LAPŲ SKYSTASIS EKSTRAKTAS’ OR  ‘FLUIDEXTRAKT AUS SPITZWEGERICHBLÄTTERN’ OR ‘AGIOCUR’:tn OR ‘AGIOFIBRA’:tn OR ‘AGIOLAX  ASSOCIAÇÃO’:tn OR ‘ALK -PRICK N 342 SPITZWEGERICH’:tn OR ‘ALLERGOVIT’:tn OR ‘ALUSTAL’:tn OR  ‘ALYOSTAL’:tn OR ‘BIOLID’:tn OR ‘BIOREDUX ABFÜHR -KÖRNER’:tn OR ‘BOOTS NATURAL FIBRE’:tn OR  ‘BRONCHI PLANTAGO’:tn OR ‘BRONCHISAN FIX’:tn OR ‘BRONCHO -SERN’:tn OR ‘CATALET C’:tn OR  ‘CENAT’:tn OR ‘COLOFIBER’:tn OR ‘COLOFIBRE’:tn OR ‘DEPOT·HAL F.I.T.’:tn OR ‘DR. THEISS  HUSTICUM’:tn OR ‘FEMAL BALANS FORTE’:tn OR ‘FIBROLAX’:tn OR ‘FIBROLAX COMPLEX’:tn OR  ‘FLOHSAMEN’:tn OR ‘FLOSA’:tn OR ‘FLOSEMA’:tn OR ‘FLOSINE BALANCE’:tn OR ‘FYBOGEL’:tn OR ‘HAL  ALLERGY PRICK TESTS’:tn OR ‘HAL ALLERGY PROVO SPRAY’:tn OR ‘HUSK’:tn OR ‘HUSTEN SAFT  ALKOHOL - UND ZUCKERFREI’:tn OR ‘HUSTEN TROPFEN BRONCHIAL -ACTIV’:tn OR ‘HUSTEN - UND  ERKÄLTUNGSSIRUP MIT SPITZWEGERICH’:tn OR ‘HUSTENSAFT’:tn OR ‘INDISCHE FLOHSAMEN’:tn OR  ‘ISOGEL’:tn OR ‘ISPAGEL ORANGE’:tn OR ‘ISPAGHUL G.M.D.’:tn OR ‘ISPAGHUL ROTTAPHARM’:tn OR  ‘ISPAGHULA HUSK MANX’:tn OR ‘ISPAGHULA HUSK MANX HEALTHCARE’:tn OR ‘ISPAGHULA HUSK  ORANGE MANX’:tn OR ‘LAXABENE’:tn OR ‘LAXADINA’:tn OR ‘LUNELAX’:tn OR ‘METAMUCIL’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 302/368   ‘MUCIVITAL’:tn OR ‘MUCOFALK’:tn OR ‘MUCOPLANT SPITZWEGERICH’:tn OR ‘MUKOFALK APFEL’:tn OR  ‘MUKOFALK FIT’:tn OR ‘NATURREINER HEILPFLANZENSAFT SPITZWEGERICH’:tn OR ‘NEURALGICUM  OLIGOPLEX’:tn OR ‘PASCOMUCIL’:tn OR ‘PEPSA -LAX’:tn OR ‘PEROSALL C’:tn OR ‘PETASITES COMP.’:tn  OR ‘PHOSTAL’:tn OR ‘PLANTABEN’:tn OR ‘PLANTAGO K&P DIAPHARM GMBH & CO. KG’:tn OR  ‘PLANTAGO KOLKMANN DIAPHARM GMBH & CO. KG’:tn OR ‘PLANTAGO OLIGOPLEX’:tn OR ‘PLANTAGO  OVATA’:tn OR ‘PLANTAGO -HOMACCORD’:tn OR ‘PLANTAGO -PRIMULA CUM HYOSCYAMO WELEDA’:tn  OR ‘PLANTAGOTIS’:tn OR ‘PLANTAIN POLLEN’:tn OR ‘PLANTASOR’:tn OR ‘PLANTAX’:tn OR ‘PRICK  TEST’:tn OR ‘PRICK -TESTLÖSUNG WEGERICH’:tn OR ‘PROVOKATIONS -TESTLÖSUNG WEGERICH’:tn  OR ‘PSYLIA’:tn OR ‘PSYLLIUM APOTEX 900 MG/G’:tn OR ‘PSYLLIUM APOTEX CITROEN 581 MG/G’:tn OR  ‘PSYLLIUM APOTEX SINAS 581 MG/G’:tn OR ‘PSYLLIUM LANGLEBERT’:tn OR ‘PSYLLIUMVEZELS PCH  SUIKERVRIJ’:tn OR ‘ROZTWORY DO TESTÓW PROWOKACYJNYCH BABKA LANCETOWATA’:tn OR  ‘ROZTWORY DO TESTÓW PUNKTOWYCH’:tn OR ‘SENOKOT’:tn OR ‘SENSIVISION AU PLANTAIN’:tn OR  ‘SIROP PATLAGINA’:tn OR ‘SIRUPUS  PLANTAGINIS’:tn OR ‘SOLUPRICK’:tn OR ‘SPAGULAX’:tn OR  ‘SPITZWEGERICH’:tn OR ‘SPITZWEGERICHBLÄTTER’:tn OR ‘STALORAL’:tn OR ‘STOPTUSSIN FYTO’:tn  OR ‘SUBLIVAC’:tn OR ‘THYMOMEL’:tn OR ‘TORTIL’:tn OR ‘TRANSILANE’:tn OR ‘TRANSILANE SANS  SUCRE’:tn OR ‘VI -SIBLIN’:tn OR ‘VIBURCOL’:tn OR ‘VIBURCOL -KINDERZÄPFCHEN’:tn OR  ‘VOLCOLON’:tn OR ‘VOLCOLON -SUIKERVRIJ’:tn OR ‘WEGERICH’:tn OR ‘AGIOCUR’:tn OR ‘AGIOLAX’:tn  OR ‘ALUSTAL’:tn OR ‘FIBREPUR’:tn OR ‘FIBROLAX’:tn OR ‘FYBOGEL.’:tn OR ‘KONSYL’:tn OR  ‘METAMUCIL’:tn OR ‘MUCILAR’:tn OR ‘MUCILAX’:tn OR ‘NOVO -MUCILAX’:tn OR ‘PLANTABEN’:tn OR  ‘PLANTAGO OVATA’:tn OR ‘PRUNOMUCIL’:tn OR ‘PSYLLIUMVEZELS ORANGE’:tn OR ‘PSYLLIUMVEZELS  PCH SUIKERVRIJ’:tn OR ‘PSYLLIUMVEZELS RATIOPHARM ORANGE SUIKERVRIJ’:tn OR ‘REGULAN’:tn  OR ‘REGULOID’:tn OR ‘VI -SIBLIN’:tn OR ‘VIBURCOL’:tn OR ‘VOLCOLON -SUIKERVRIJ’:tn AND ('adverse  drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR  'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   315.  Echinacea   ‘ECHINACEA PURPUREA ROOT’ OR ‘EXTRACTUM SPISSUM COMPOSITUM EX: HARPAGOPHYTI RADICE  (4 PARTS), ECHINACEAE PURPUREAE HERBA (3 PARTS), ULMARIAE FLORE (3 PARTS) DER 2 -4:1,  EXTRACTING AGENT: ETHANOL, WATER’ OR ‘EKSTRAKT ZELI ŠKRLATNE EHINACEJE’ OR ‘ECHINACEAE  PURPUREAE HERBA EXTR.’ OR ‘EKSTRAKT AF ECHINACEA PURPUREA HERBA’ OR ‘EKSTRAKT  KORENINE ŠKRLATNE EHINACEJE’ OR ‘ECHINACEAE PURPUREAE RADIX EXTR.’ OR ‘EKSTRAKT AF  ECHINACEA PURPUREA L. RADIX’ OR ‘WYCIĄG GĘSTY Z ZIELA JEŻÓWKI PURPUROWEJ’ OR ‘PRESSED  JUICE FROM FRESH ECHINACEA PURPUREA HERB’ OR ‘ECHINACEA’ OR ‘JUGO FRESCO DE LAS PARTES  AÉREAS FLORIDAS DE ECHINACEA PURPUREA (1,7 -2,5:1)’ OR ‘EXTRACTO SECO DE HOJAS Y TALLOS     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 303/368   DE ECHINACEA ANGUSTIFOLIA (4.8 -5.8:1), SOLVENTE DE EXTRACCIÓN: AGUA’ OR ‘ECHINACEAE  PURPUREAE HERBAE’ OR ‘NATIVE DRY EXTRACT FROM RADIX BAPTISIAE TINCTORIAE, RADIX  ECHINACEAE PALLIDAE, RADIX ECHINACEAE PURPUREAE, HERBA THUJAE OCCIDENTALIS’ OR  ‘EXTRACTUM ECHINACEAE SICCUM’ OR ‘GETROCKNETER PRESSSAFT AUS FRISCHEM BLÜHENDEM  PURPURSONNENHUTKRAUT’ OR ‘DRIED PRESSED JUICE FROM FRESH FLOWERING PURPLE  CONEFLOWER HERB’ OR ‘WYCIĄG GĘSTY Z JEŻÓWKI’ OR ‘WYCIĄG SUCHY Z ZIELA JEŻÓWKI  PURPUROWEJ’ OR ‘PRESS JUICE OF FRESH AND FLOWERING ECHINACEA PURPUREA’ OR ‘VYTLAČENEJ  ŠŤAVY Z ČERSTVÝCH KVITNÚCICH KVETOV DRUHU ECHINACEA PURPUREA’ OR ‘PRESSSAFT AUS  FRISCHEM, BLÜHENDEN PURPURSONNENHUTKRAUT’ OR ‘ECHINACEAE TINCTURA’ OR  ‘RAUSVAŽIEDŽIŲ EŽIUOLIŲ ŽOLĖS’ OR ‘ECHINACEAE ANGUSTIFOLIAE TINCTURA’ OR ‘ECHINACEAE  PURPUREAE HERBA SUCCUS EXPRESSUS SICCUM’ OR ‘GETROCKNETER PRESSSAFT AUS FRISCHEM  BLÜHENDEN PURPURSONNENHUTKRAUT’ OR ‘ECHINACEAE PURPUREAE HERBA SUCCUS EXPRESSUS’  OR ‘EXTR. ECHINACEA PALL. E RAD. SICC.’ OR ‘A -BOMIN’:tn OR ‘A. VOGEL ECHINAFORCE’:tn OR  ‘AKNE’:tn OR ‘ALCHINAL’:tn OR ‘ANGI N’:tn OR ‘ANTIFLAMMIN H INJ.’:tn OR ‘AP VI N’:tn OR ‘AP X  N’:tn OR ‘AP XIII’:tn OR ‘ARGENTUM D30 / ECHINACEA D6 AA’:tn OR ‘BELLADONNA -HOMACCORD’:tn  OR ‘CALCEA’:tn OR ‘CARTILAGO/ECHINACEA COMP.’:tn OR ‘CEFASEPT’:tn OR ‘CINNABSIN’:tn OR  ‘COLD & FLU’:tn OR ‘COLD AND FLU’:tn OR ‘CONJUNCTIVA COMP.’:tn OR ‘CONTRAMUTAN’:tn OR  ‘DORON ’:tn OR ‘DR. THEISS ECHINACEA’:tn OR ‘DR. THEISS ECHINACEA FORTE’:tn OR ‘DR.THEISS  ECHINACEA KRÄUTER’:tn OR ‘ECHINACEA/ARGENTUM’:tn OR ‘ECHINACEA/MERCURIUS COMP.’:tn OR  ‘ECHINACEA/VISCUM COMP.’:tn OR ‘ECHINACEAE PURPUREAE HERBA SUCCUS EXPRESSUS (1.5 - 2.5  : 1) RATIOPHARM’:tn OR ‘ECHINACEAE PURPUREAE HERBA SUCCUS EXPRESSUS SICCUM (22 - 65 : 1)  RATIOPHARM’:tn OR ‘ECHINACIN’:tn OR ‘ECHINAFORCE’:tn OR ‘ECHINAJECT’:tn OR ‘ECHINAMED’:tn  OR ‘ECHINAPUR’:tn OR ‘ECHINASAL’:tn OR ‘ECHINASOR’:tn OR ‘ECHINEEZE’:tn OR ‘ECHINERBA’:tn OR  ‘ENDOMETRIUM COMP.’:tn OR ‘ERKÄLTUNGS -ENTOXIN’:tn OR ‘ERKÄLTUNGSSCHUTZ KAPSELN MIT  ECHINCEA’:tn OR ‘ERKÄLTUNGSTROPFEN -HEEL’:tn OR ‘ESBERITOX’:tn OR ‘EUPATORIUM N  OLIGOPLEX’:tn OR ‘EXTRACTO DE ECHINACEA NATYSAL 100 MG’:tn OR ‘FEBRI -ORTHIM’:tn OR  ‘FIEBER - UND ZAHNUNGSZÄPFCHEN’:tn OR ‘FIEBER -ZÄPFCHEN N COSMOCHEMA’:tn OR  ‘HANOTOXIN’:tn OR ‘HEPAR SULFURIS PENTARKAN’:tn OR ‘HERBALS ECHINACEA’:tn OR ‘HERBION  ECHINACEA’:tn OR ‘HEVERTOTOX’:tn OR ‘IMMUNAL’:tn OR ‘IMUNOX’:tn OR ‘INFEKT’:tn OR ‘INFEKT - KOMPLEX L’:tn OR ‘INFLUEX’:tn OR ‘INJECTIO FEBROGRIPPALIS AMPULLEN’:tn OR ‘INJECTIO  LYMPHATICA AMPULLEN’:tn OR ‘INJECTIO SINUTALIS AMPULLEN’:tn OR ‘LOMABRONCHIN’:tn OR  ‘LYMPHDIARAL’:tn OR ‘LYMPHOCAUSAL’:tn OR ‘LYMPHOZIL’:tn OR ‘LÖWE -KOMPLEX NR. 5 ECHINACEA  COMP.’:tn OR ‘MANDELO -KATT’:tn OR ‘MATO’:tn OR ‘MAX STRENGTH ECHINACEA TABLETS’:tn OR  ‘MERCURIUS CYANATUS N OLIGOPLEX’:tn OR ‘MERCURIUS -HEEL’:tn OR ‘MERCURIUS -HEEL S’:tn OR  ‘METAGLOBIFLU’:tn OR ‘MUNDBALSAM’:tn OR ‘NAPIERS ELIXIR OF ECHINACEA COMPLEX’:tn OR  ‘NARANOTOX’:tn OR ‘NATURREINER HEILPFLANZENSAFT SONNENHUT’:tn OR ‘NIERANO HOM’:tn OR  ‘OCULO -HEEL’:tn OR ‘OCULOHEEL’:tn OR ‘OCULOHEEL LUX’:tn OR ‘ORIGINAL -TINKTUR N’:tn OR  ‘ORTITRUW’:tn OR ‘OTOVOWEN’:tn OR ‘PARAMETRIUM/ECHINACEA COMP.’:tn OR ‘PASCOLETS’:tn OR  ‘PASCOLEUCYN’:tn OR ‘PHÖNO GRIPP’:tn OR ‘POTTERS CATARRH & CONGESTION RELIEF’:tn OR  ‘POTTERS ELIXIR OF ECHINACEA PLUS’:tn OR ‘POTTERS SKIN CLEAR’:tn OR ‘PYROGENIUM’:tn OR  ‘REUMAHERB’:tn OR ‘SABAL PENTARKAN H’:tn OR ‘SCHWÖROTOX’:tn OR ‘SIGNASOL’:tn OR  ‘SINUSITIS’:tn OR ‘SPASMO -URGENIN’:tn OR ‘STANDARD STRENGTH ECHINACEA TABLETS’:tn OR  ‘TOXI -LOGES’:tn OR ‘TOXIKATT’:tn OR ‘TOXISELECT’:tn OR ‘VINCEEL  - HALSSPRAY’:tn OR ‘VIR’:tn OR  ‘VISAMIN’:tn OR ‘VISCUM/ECHINACEA’:tn OR ‘VITABIOTICS ECHINACEA TABLETS’:tn OR ‘WECESIN  ’:tn OR ‘A. VOGEL ECHINAFORCE’:tn OR ‘A.VOGEL ECHINAFORCE’:tn OR ‘ECHINAFORCE’:tn OR  ‘ENAX’:tn OR ‘ESBERITOX’:tn OR ‘IMMUNOPRET’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 304/368   'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   316.  Senna   ‘SENNAE FOLII EXTRACTUM SICCUM NORMATUM’ OR ‘SENNAE FOLII EXTRACTUM SICCUM  NORMATUM’ OR ‘SÉNÉ (FEUILLE DE), EXTRAIT SEC TITRÉ DE’ OR ‘SENNA PODS, ALEXANDRIAN’ OR  ‘CASSIA ALEXANDRINA FRUIT’ OR ‘SENNA ALEXANDRINA FRUIT’ OR ‘TINNEVELLY SENNESFRÜCHTE’  OR ‘SENNAE FRUCTUS ACUTIFOLIAE’ OR ‘SENNA PODS, TINNEVELLY’ OR ‘CASSIA ANGUSTIFOLIA  FRUIT’ OR ‘SENNAE FRUCTUS ANGUSTIFOLIAE’ OR ‘CASSIA SENNA WHOLE’ OR ‘SENNA DRY EXTRACT’  OR ‘SENNA ESTRATTO SECCO’ OR ‘SENNA FRUIT EXTRACT’ OR ‘SENNAE FOLIUM’ OR ‘SENNA LEAVES’  OR ‘SENNESBLÄTTER’ OR ‘SENNA FOLIAE’ OR ‘SENNA LEAF’ OR ‘SENNOVÝ LIST’ OR ‘LIŚĆ SENESU’ OR  ‘SENŲ LAPAI’ OR ‘SENNA FOGLIE’ OR ‘FOLIOLE DE SENE’ OR ‘SENNESBLÄTTER’ OR ‘SENNOSIDE B’ OR  ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS ALEXANDRINER -SENNESFRÜCHTEN (6 -12:1) EINGESTELLT AUF 13,0 MG  HYDROXYANTHRACENGLYKOSIDE (BERECHNET ALS SENNOSID B); AUSZUGSMITTEL: ETHANOL’ OR  ‘CASSIA SENNA L. FOLIUM’ OR ‘CASSIA ACUTIFOLIA DELILE, FOLIUM’ OR ‘CASSIA ANGUSTIFOLIA  VAHL, FOLIUM’ OR ‘SENNA ALEXANDRINA LEAF’ OR ‘SENNA PODS’ OR ‘SENNA FRUIT’ OR ‘STRĄK  SENESU’ OR ‘SENNA FRUTTI’ OR ‘FRUTOS DE CASSIA ANGUSTIFOLIA’ OR ‘SENNESBÆLG’ OR ‘SENNA  GLYCOSIDES STANDARDIZED’ OR ‘TINEVELLY SENNA LEAVES’ OR ‘SENNOSIDES CALCIUM SALTS’ OR  ‘SÓL WAPNIOWA SENNOZYDÓW’ OR ‘KALCIO SENOZIDAI’ OR ‘SENE (FOLHAS, EXTRACTO SECO)’ OR  ‘LIŚĆ I OWOC SENESU’ OR ‘EXTRAIT SEC ALCOOLIQUE DE SÉNÉ’ OR ‘ABFUEHRTEE MIT  SENNESBLAETTERN’ OR ‘ABFÜHRTEE’ OR ‘AGIOLAX’:tn OR ‘ALASENN’:tn OR ‘ALEXANDRIAN SENNA  PODS’:tn OR ‘ALMUS’:tn OR ‘ARKOGELULES SENE’:tn OR ‘ASPAR’:tn OR ‘BABANEY’:tn OR ‘BEKUNIS’:tn  OR ‘BIO SENES’:tn OR ‘BOLDOFLORINE’:tn OR ‘BOLUS LAXANS’:tn OR ‘COLONORM’:tn OR ‘CONFETTI  LASSATIVI’:tn OR ‘DARMOL’:tn OR ‘DRAGEES 19  SENNA’:tn OR ‘DRALINSA ABFÜHR -KÖRNER’:tn OR  ‘DRIX’:tn OR ‘EUCARBON’:tn OR ‘EUCARBON HERBAL’:tn OR ‘EX -LAX’:tn OR ‘FIGURA 1’:tn OR ‘GRAINS  DE VALS’:tn OR ‘HEMORANTA’:tn OR ‘HERBESAN’:tn OR ‘HERBESAN, MÉLANGE DE PLANTES POUR  TISANE’:tn OR ‘HOLYPLANT’:tn OR ‘INSTANT TEE’:tn OR ‘JACOBUS -SCHWEDENKRÄUTER -N’:tn OR  ‘KRÄUTERTEE’:tn OR ‘LAXANTE OLAN’:tn OR ‘LAXANTE SALUD’:tn OR ‘LAXANTIA TEA’:tn OR  ‘LAXATIVE’:tn OR ‘LIST SENNY’:tn OR ‘LIŚĆ SENESU’:tn OR ‘MANEVAC’:tn OR ‘MIDRO’:tn OR  ‘MODANE’:tn OR ‘MUCINUM’:tn OR ‘NEDA’:tn OR ‘NORMOSAN’:tn OR ‘NUMARK’:tn OR ‘N°7 CONTRE LA  CONSTIPATION PASSAGERE’:tn OR ‘PLANINSKI ČAJ ZA ČIŠĆENJE TREŠNJEVKA LABORATORIJ  D.O.O.’:tn OR ‘POTTER’:tn OR ‘PREHÁŇACIA ČAJOVÁ ZMES’:tn OR ‘PROJÍMAVÁ ČAJOVÁ SMĚS’:tn OR  ‘PRUNASINE’:tn OR ‘PURSENNID’:tn OR ‘PURSENNIDE’:tn OR ‘RED SENES TEA’:tn OR ‘REDUKTAN’:tn  OR ‘REGULAX’:tn OR ‘SENADEX’:tn OR ‘SENEFOL’:tn OR ‘SENES’:tn OR ‘SENNA’:tn OR ‘SENNA  ARKOPHARMA’:tn OR ‘SENNA CARE’:tn OR ‘SENNA DRAGEES’:tn OR ‘SENNA ESSENTIAL WAITROSE’:tn  OR ‘SENNA FIX’:tn OR ‘SENNA HEALTHPOINT’:tn OR ‘SENNA LLOYDSPHARMACY’:tn OR ‘SENNA     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 305/368   MORRISONS’:tn OR ‘SENNA SAINSBURY’:tn OR ‘SENNA SUPERDRUG’:tn OR ‘SENNA TESCO’:tn OR  ‘SENNA TISANE’:tn OR ‘SENNA WILKO’:tn OR ‘SENNALAX’:tn OR ‘SENNESBLÄTTER’:tn OR  ‘SENNESBLÄTTER M’:tn OR ‘SENNOCOL’:tn OR ‘SENNOVÉ LUSKY’:tn OR ‘SENNOVÝ LIST’:tn OR ‘SENŲ  LAPAI ŠVF’:tn OR ‘TABLETTA PHENOLPHTHALEINI COMPOSITA’:tn OR ‘TAMARINE’:tn OR ‘THEA’:tn OR  ‘TISANA’:tn OR ‘TISANE PROVENCALE N°1’:tn OR ‘X -PREP’:tn OR ‘X -PREP-75’:tn OR ‘XENNA’:tn OR  ‘ČAJ Z LISTOV SENNY’:tn OR ‘ČAJ Z LISTU SENNY’:tn OR ‘ASPAR’:tn OR ‘DEPURAN’:tn OR ‘DRAGEES  19 SENNA’:tn OR ‘EUCARBON’:tn OR ‘EUCARBON HERBAL’:tn OR ‘EX -LAX’:tn OR ‘FRUGELLETTEN’:tn  OR ‘MUCINUM’:tn OR ‘NATURET’:tn OR ‘NUMARK’:tn OR ‘PRUNASINE’:tn OR ‘RITASEND’:tn OR  ‘SELINALEET’:tn OR ‘SENNA’:tn OR ‘SENNALAX’:tn OR ‘SENNAPUR’:tn OR ‘SENOKOT’:tn OR ‘X PREP’:tn  OR ‘X -PREP’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   317.  Thymus   ‘EXTRACTUM SPISSUM: MATRICARIAE ANTHODIO, CALENDULAE ANTHODIO, FARFARAE FOLIO,  QUERCUS CORTICE, SALVIAE FOLIO, THYMI HERBA’ OR ‘EKSTRAKT AF THYMUS VULGARIS HERBA’ OR  ‘THYMUS VULGARIS L. LIQUID HYDROALCOHOLIC (31.5 % V/V) EXTRACT’ OR ‘PRESSED JUICE FROM  FRESH THYME HERB’ OR ‘PRESS -SAFT AUS FRISCHEM THYMIANKRAUT’ OR ‘THYME’ OR ‘THYMIAN’ OR  ‘THYMUS’ OR ‘THYM’ OR ‘THYMIAN’ OR ‘OIL OF THYME’ OR ‘THYMIANÖL’ OR ‘ÓLEO DE TOMILHO’ OR  ‘THIJMOLIE’ OR ‘THYMIANÖL’ OR ‘THYMOL’ OR ‘THYMOLUM’ OR ‘TIMOL’ OR ‘TIMOL’ OR ‘TIMOL’ OR  ‘TYMOL’ OR ‘TIMOLIS’ OR ‘TIMOLO’ OR ‘TIMOL’ OR ‘THYMOL’ OR ‘TÜMOOL’ OR ‘TIMOL’ OR ‘THYMOL’ OR  ‘THYMUS EXTRACT’ OR ‘THYMUS VULGARIS FLUID EXTRACT’ OR ‘THYMUS VULGARIS LIQUID EXTRACT’  OR ‘TEKUTÝ EXTRAKT Z DÚŠKY TYMIANOVEJ’ OR ‘EXTRACTO FLUIDO DE THYMUS VULGARIS’ OR  ‘WILD THYME’ OR ‘THYMUS SERPYLLUM’ OR ‘THYMI EXTRACTUM FLUIDUM’ OR ‘WYCIĄG Z TYMIANKU  PŁYNNY’ OR ‘THYMI HERBA’ OR ‘WYCIĄG SUCHY Z TYMIANKU’ OR ‘THYMIANTROCKENEXTRAKT’ OR  ‘THYMUS ESSENTIAL OIL’ OR ‘THYMI AETHEROLEUM’ OR ‘OLIO ESSENZIALE DI TIMO’ OR ‘ESSENZA  TIMO’ OR ‘HUILE ESSENTIELLE DE THYM’ OR ‘ÄTHERISCHES THYMIANÖL’ OR ‘THYMUS HERB LIQUID  EXTRACT’ OR ‘FLUIDEXTRAKT AUS THYMIANKRAUT’ OR ‘THYMIANKRAUT -FLUIDEXTRAKT’ OR  ‘THYMIANKRAUT -FLUIDEXTRAKT (1:2 -2,5), AUSZUGSMITTEL: AMMONIAKLÖSUNG 10 % (M/M),  GLYCEROL 85 %, ETHANOL 90 % (V/V), WASSER’ OR ‘ESSENTIAL OIL - THYMUS SERPYLLUM’ OR  ‘SERPOLET HUILE ESSENTIELLE’ OR ‘ALPENKRAFT HUSTEN - UND BRONCHIALTEE’ OR ‘ARZNEIBAD  ERKÄLTUNG MIT THYMIAN AB’ OR ‘BIOTUSS’ OR ‘BIOTUSSIL’ OR ‘BRONCHICUM’ OR  ‘BRONCHORECTINE WITH CITRAL’ OR ‘BRONCHOSAN’ OR ‘BRUST -TEE N’ OR ‘CALYPTOL’ OR  ‘DEPURATUM’ OR ‘ELIXIRIUM THYMI COMPOSITUM’ OR ‘ERKÄLTUNGS -TEE’ OR ‘ERKÄLTUNGSTEE V’ OR  ‘GELOBRONCHIAL -SAFT’ OR ‘HERBAPECT’:tn OR ‘HUSTAGIL’:tn OR ‘HUSTEN - & BRONCHIAL -TEE’:tn     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 306/368   OR ‘HUSTEN - UND BRONCHIALTEE I’:tn OR ‘IMIDIN HUSTENTROPFEN MIT THYMIAN’:tn OR  ‘KARVOL’:tn OR ‘KNEIPP  HUSTEN -BRONCHIAL TEE’:tn OR ‘MAKATUSSIN’:tn OR ‘MELROSUM’:tn OR  ‘MENTOBOX’:tn OR ‘MIXTURA PECTORALIS’:tn OR ‘MUC -SABONA ’:tn OR ‘MUCOPLANT KVAPKY’:tn OR  ‘MUCOSIT’:tn OR ‘NATURREINER HEILPFLANZENSAFT THYMIAN’:tn OR ‘NIMOPECT’:tn OR  ‘PECTOSOL’:tn OR ‘PENATEN BABY ERKÄLTUNGSBAD’:tn OR ‘PERUBORE’:tn OR ‘PHYTOBRONCHIN’:tn  OR ‘PILKA’:tn OR ‘PROPECTON HUSTENTEE’:tn OR ‘PULMORAN’:tn OR ‘RETTERSPITZ BRONCHIAL’:tn  OR ‘SCOTTOPECT - HUSTENSAFT’:tn OR ‘SINUFORTON’:tn OR ‘SOLEDUM’:tn OR ‘SYROP TYMIANKOWY  ZŁOŻONY’:tn OR ‘THYMIAN’:tn OR ‘THYMIAN LI -IL’:tn OR ‘TONSAN CHRONIC’:tn OR ‘TOULARYNX  THYM’:tn OR ‘TUSSAMAG’:tn OR ‘TUSSAVIT’:tn OR ‘TUSSIFLORIN THYMIAN’:tn OR ‘TUSSIMONT’:tn OR  ‘TUSSIPECT’:tn OR ‘TUSSITOL -HUSTENTROPFEN’:tn OR ‘TYMIANKOWY ZŁOŻONY’:tn OR  ‘URCYSTON’:tn OR ‘ASPECTON’:tn OR ‘BRONCHICUM’:tn OR ‘BRONCHIPRET’:tn OR ‘MAKATUSSIN’:tn  OR ‘PERTUSSIN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR  'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   318.  Crategus   ‘CRATAEGUS SPECIES (DRY EXTRACT)’ OR ‘HAWTHORN BERRIES’ OR ‘CRATAEGI FRUCTUS’ OR  ‘AUBÉPINE (BAIE D’ OR ‘CRATAEGI FOLIUM CUM FLORE’ OR ‘HAWTHORN LEAF AND FLOWER’ OR  ‘KWIATOSTAN GŁOGU’ OR ‘CRATAEGI FOLIUM CUM FLORE’ OR ‘AUBÉPINE’ OR ‘WEIßDORNBLÄTTER -  UND BLÜTEN’ OR ‘CRATAEGUS, FOLIUM, ETHANOL. EXTR.’ OR ‘CRATAEGUS’ OR ‘AUBÉPINE  (TEINTURE)’ OR ‘CRATAEGI INFLORESCENTIA’ OR ‘TINCTURE FROM HAWTHORN BERRIES’ OR  ‘VILKĀBELES AUGĻU TINKTŪRA 1:10’ OR ‘GUDOBELIŲ VAISIŲ TINKTŪRA’ OR ‘LIQUID EXTRACT FROM  HAWTHORN BERRIES’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS WEIßDORNBLÄTTERN MIT BLÜTEN’ OR  ‘WEIßDORNBLÄTTER -MIT-BLÜTEN -TROCKENEXTRAKT’ OR ‘CRATAEGI INFLORESCENTIAE EXTRACTUM  SPISSUM’ OR ‘WYCIĄG GĘSTY Z KWIATOSTANU GŁOGU’ OR ‘CRATAEGI FOLII CUM FLORE TINCTURA’  OR ‘NALEWKA Z KWIATOSTANU GŁOGU’ OR ‘EXTRACTUM FLUIDUM COMPOSITUM EX :  MELISSAE  FOLIO, CRATAEGI INFLORESCENTIA,  ARCHANGELICAE RADICE’ OR ‘WYCIĄG PŁYNNY ZŁOŻONY Z:  LIŚCIA MELISY, KWIATOSTANU GŁOGU, I KORZENIA ARCYDZIĘGLA’ OR ‘WEIßDORNEXTRAKT AUS  BLÜTEN, BLÄTTERN UND FRÜCHTEN MIT 3 MG/G OLIGOMERE PROCYANIDINE’ OR ‘50 PLUS’ OR  ‘ADONIS COMP.’ OR ‘ADONIS -KOMPLEX L’ OR ‘AKTIVON’ OR ‘ANGINAPECT’ OR ‘ANGIOTON H’ OR  ‘AUXCILLIN HM’ OR ‘CACTUS COMP. II’ OR ‘CARBO BETULAE D8 / CRATAEGUS D2 AA’ OR ‘CARDIO’ OR  ‘CARDIOJECT’:tn OR ‘CEFAVORA WM’:tn OR ‘CHRONOCARD N’:tn OR ‘CIRCULOSAN FIX’:tn OR  ‘CONFLUDIN N’:tn OR ‘CONVALLOCOR’:tn OR ‘CONVASTABIL PEKTAHOM’:tn OR ‘COR -LOGES’:tn OR  ‘CORVIPAS’:tn OR ‘CRAEGIUM’:tn OR ‘CRALONIN TROPFEN’:tn OR ‘CRATAEGAN’:tn OR  ‘CRATAEGUS’:tn OR ‘CRATAEGUS -SCHWABE’:tn OR ‘CRATAEGUS/COR COMP.’:tn OR ‘CRATAEGUTT’:tn     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 307/368   OR ‘CRATAESOR’:tn OR ‘CRATONIC’:tn OR ‘DORMIREL’:tn OR ‘ESBERICARD’:tn OR ‘EUCORDINA - TROPFEN’:tn OR ‘FITOVEN’:tn OR ‘HANOCOR’:tn OR ‘HERZ VITAL’:tn OR ‘HERZ -KREISLAUF -TEE’:tn OR  ‘HERZTROPFEN’:tn OR ‘HOMVIOCORIN TABLETTEN’:tn OR ‘HOMVIOTENSIN MISCHUNG’:tn OR  ‘HOMVIOTENSIN TABLETTEN’:tn OR ‘HYPERCORAN’:tn OR ‘IGNATIA PENTARKAN H’:tn OR ‘ILJA  ROGOFF THM’:tn OR ‘INFI -CRATAEGUS TROPFEN’:tn OR ‘KATTWICOR’:tn OR ‘KNEIPP  WEIßDORN  TEE’:tn OR ‘KORODIN’:tn OR ‘KOROLINDA’:tn OR ‘KROPLE NASERCOWE’:tn OR ‘KWIAT GŁOGU FIX’:tn  OR ‘LENICALM’:tn OR ‘MELILOTUS -HOMACCORD’:tn OR ‘MELISAL  ’:tn OR ‘NERVENTROPFEN’:tn OR  ‘OXACANT MONO’:tn OR ‘PASSIFLORINE’:tn OR ‘PERELAX’:tn OR ‘PFLÜGERPLEX APISINUM 360’:tn OR  ‘PHÖNIX AURUM’:tn OR ‘PRESSELIN WEISSDORN -TROPFEN’:tn OR ‘PROCORDAL  LIQUID’:tn OR  ‘PUMPAN’:tn OR ‘R44’:tn OR ‘RAUWOLSAN KOMPLEX PFLÜGER’:tn OR ‘ROBUDICUR’:tn OR ‘SCILLA  COMP.’:tn OR ‘SE WEIßDORN’:tn OR ‘SENICOR N TROPFEN’:tn OR ‘SINUS -CYL’:tn OR ‘SPARTIUM  PENTARKAN H’:tn OR ‘STENOCRAT’:tn OR ‘SYMPAVAGOL’:tn OR ‘TONING -UP’:tn OR ‘TONINGUP  TABLETÈS’:tn OR ‘VASOTONICUM OLIGOPLEX’:tn OR ‘VILKĀBEĻU TINKTŪRA’:tn OR ‘VILKĀBEĻU  ŠĶIDRAIS EKSTRAKTS’:tn OR ‘VISCUM/CRATAEGUS’:tn OR ‘VIVOTON H’:tn OR ‘WEIßDORN’:tn OR  ‘WEIßDORN -RATIOPHARM’:tn OR ‘WEIßDORNBLÄTTER’:tn OR ‘WIBOPHORIN H’:tn OR ‘CARDIPLANT’:tn  OR ‘CRATAEGUTT’:tn OR ‘FAROS’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   319.  Serenoa   ‘EXTRACT OF SERENOAE REPENTIS FRUCTUS 8 -13:1 EXTRACTING AGENT: ETHANOL’ OR  ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS SÄGEPALMENFRÜCHTEN’ OR ‘EXTRAKT (SOM TJOCKT EXTRAKT) FRÅN  SERENOA REPENS (BARTRAM) SMALL, FRUCTUS (SÅGPALMETTO)’ OR ‘TJOCKT EXTRAKT AV SERENOA  REPENS (BARTRAM) SMALL’ OR ‘EXTRAKTU PLODOV SABALOVEJ PALMY (SABAL SERRULATA)’ OR  ‘EXTRAKTU PLODOV SABALOVEJ PALMY - SABAL SERRULATA’ OR ‘EKSTRAKT (SOM MYKT EKSTRAKT)  FRA SERENOA REPENS (BARTRAM) SMALL, FRUCTUS’ OR ‘DICKEXTRAKT AUS SÄGEPALMENFRÜCHTEN’  OR ‘ESTRATTO SECCO IDROALCOOLICO DI FRUTTI DI SERENOA REPENS’ OR ‘SERENOA REPENS’ OR  ‘SAW PALMETTO’ OR ‘LIPIDOSTEROLIC EXTRACT OF SERENOA REPENS’ OR ‘LIPID EXTRACT OF  SERENOA REPENS STEROL’ OR ‘SERENOA SERRULATA FRUIT EXTRACT’ OR ‘EXTRACT FROM SABALIS  SERRULATAE FRUCTUS’ OR ‘WYCIĄG Z OWOCÓW SERENOA REPENS’ OR ‘SERENOAE REPENS FRUCTUS  EXTRACTUM’ OR ‘SZABALPÁLMA TERMÉS KIVONATA’ OR ‘EXTRACT OF SAW PALMETTO FRUITS’ OR  ‘SÄGEPALMENFRÜCHTE EXTRAKT’ OR ‘EXTRAKT AUS SERENOA REPENS (BARTRAM) SMALL, FRUCTUS  (SÄGEPALMENFRÜCHTE)’ OR ‘SAVPALMEFRUGT EKSTRAKT’ OR ‘EKSTRAKT (SOM BLØDT EKSTRAKT) AF  SERENOA REPENS (BARTRAM) SMALL. (SABAL SERRULATA (MICHAUX) NICHOLS), FRUCTUS’ OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 308/368   ‘EXTRAKT AUS SÄGEPALMENFRÜCHTEN’ OR ‘SÄGEPALMENFRÜCHTE -DICKEXTRAKT (ETHANOL 96%  V/V), DEV 9 -11:1’ OR ‘ANESDERM’:tn OR ‘ANESDERM.’:tn OR ‘CAPISTAN’:tn OR ‘CURBISAL’:tn OR  ‘EVIPROSTAT -S UNO’:tn OR ‘FITOPROST’:tn OR ‘GENTOS’:tn OR ‘HORPHAGEN UNO’:tn OR  ‘HYPERPROST’:tn OR ‘INFI -CANTHARIS -INJEKTION N’:tn OR ‘IPREAL’:tn OR ‘LIBEPROSTA’:tn OR  ‘NORMUROL’:tn OR ‘PASCOSABAL’:tn OR ‘PERMIXON’:tn OR ‘PFLÜGERPLEX PAREIRA 355 H’:tn OR  ‘PLANTUROL’:tn OR ‘POTTERS STRENGTH’:tn OR ‘PRODINAN’:tn OR ‘PROSABAL’:tn OR ‘PROSTA  ALBIN’:tn OR ‘PROSTA SABAL -KÜRBIS -KAPSELN’:tn OR ‘PROSTACALMAN’:tn OR ‘PROSTAGUTT’:tn OR  ‘PROSTAKAN’:tn OR ‘PROSTAKAN MONO’:tn OR ‘PROSTAMOL UNO’:tn OR ‘PROSTAPLANT’:tn OR  ‘PROSTASAN’:tn OR ‘PROSTATA -ENTOXIN N’:tn OR ‘PROSTATA -KOMPLEX L’:tn OR ‘PROSTAZYN’:tn OR  ‘PROTITIS COMP.’:tn OR ‘R25’:tn OR ‘REMIPROSTAN UNO’:tn OR ‘RENEEL’:tn OR ‘RILAPROST’:tn OR  ‘SABA’:tn OR ‘SABAL’:tn OR ‘SABAL -HOMACCORD’:tn OR ‘SABAL -SCHWABE’:tn OR ‘SABAL -URTICA  KAPSELN’:tn OR ‘SABAL -URTICA SCHWABE’:tn OR ‘SABALIN’:tn OR ‘SABALLO’:tn OR ‘SABALUNO’:tn  OR ‘SABALVIT’:tn OR ‘SE SÄGEPALME’:tn OR ‘SEREPROSTA’:tn OR ‘STEIPROSTAT’:tn OR ‘STERKO’:tn  OR ‘STROGEN UNO’:tn OR ‘SÄGEPALME’:tn OR ‘SÄGEPALME -SCHWABE’:tn OR ‘TALSO’:tn OR  ‘THIADIX’:tn OR ‘UROGUTT’:tn OR ‘UROKATT’:tn OR ‘UROTRUW N’:tn OR ‘URUSAL M PLUS’:tn OR  ‘HEALTH SMART MENS HEALTH PROSTATE HEALTH’:tn OR ‘LANAPROST’:tn OR ‘PERMIXON’:tn OR  ‘PROSTAGUTT’:tn OR ‘PROSTAGUTT FORTE’:tn OR ‘PROSTAMOL UNO’:tn OR ‘SABA’:tn OR ‘SITA’:tn  AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR  misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp  OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   320.  Silybum   ‘MILK THISTLE FRUIT EXTRACT’ OR ‘MARIENDISTELFRÜCHTE -TROCKENEXTRAKT’ OR ‘SILYBI MARIANI  FRUCTUS EXTRACTUM, DER 20 - 34 : 1’ OR ‘CARDUUS MARIANUS, FRUCTUS, EXTR. SICC. 36 -44:1’  OR ‘CARDUI MARIAE FRUCTUS’ OR ‘FRUCTUS CARDUI MARIAE’ OR ‘SILYBUM MARIANUM’ OR ‘MILK  THISTLE’ OR ‘LADYS THISTLE’ OR ‘MARIAN THISTLE’ OR ‘CARDUUS MARIANUS’ OR ‘SILYMARIN’ OR  ‘SILIMARINA’ OR ‘SILYMARINUM’ OR ‘SILIMARINĂ’ OR ‘SYLIMARYNA’ OR ‘SILIMARINAS’ OR  ‘SILIMARINA’ OR ‘CARDUI MARIAE EXTRACTUM’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS MARIENDISTELFRÜCHTEN  (36-44 : 1) ENTSPRECHEND 140 MG SILYMARIN, BERECHNET ALS SILIBININ’ OR ‘DRY EXTRACT OF  MILK THISTLE FRUITS 36 -44:1; EQUIVALENT TO 75.0 -80.9% SILYMARIN (DNPH), EQUIVALENT TO  58.0-62.5% (HPLC) SILYMARIN CALCULATED AS SILIBININ, EXTRACTIVE: ETHYL ACETATE’ OR  ‘EXTRACTUM FRUCTUS CARDUI MARIAE (25 -40:1)’ OR ‘MÁRIATÖVIS TERMÉSÉNEK KIVONATA (25 - 40:1)’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS MARIENDISTELFRÜCHTEN (25 -40:1)’ OR ‘DRY EXTRACT OF MILK  THISTLE FRUIT, NATIVE (21 -45:1)’ OR ‘CARDUI MARIANI EXTRACTUM SICCUM’ OR ‘ALEPAFORT’:tn OR  ‘ANAGALLIS COMP.’:tn OR ‘ANTI -DISPEPSIA’:tn OR ‘AQUILINUM COMP.’:tn OR ‘BISMUTUM     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 309/368   OLIGOPLEX’:tn OR ‘BOMAGALL’:tn OR ‘CARDUOKATT’:tn OR ‘CARDUUS MARIANUS/OXALIS’:tn OR  ‘CARDUUS MARIANUS/VISCUM MALI COMP.’:tn OR ‘CARSIL’:tn OR ‘CEFASILYMARIN’:tn OR ‘CHOL - DO’:tn OR ‘CHOLE -CYL L’:tn OR ‘CHOLELIND OLIGOPLEX’:tn OR ‘CHOLHEPAN’:tn OR ‘CHOLO 2’:tn OR  ‘DIGESTEEZE’:tn OR ‘DIGESTIVEAID’:tn OR ‘DR. BÖHM  MARIENDISTEL’:tn OR ‘GALLE - UND  LEBERTEE’:tn OR ‘GALSTENA’:tn OR ‘GRACIL’:tn OR ‘GUALEDUM HM’:tn OR ‘HAMAMELIS - HOMACCORD’:tn OR ‘HANOHEPAN’:tn OR ‘HEGRIMARIN’:tn OR ‘HEPA -LOGES’:tn OR ‘HEPABENE’:tn OR  ‘HEPABESCH’:tn OR ‘HEPAR’:tn OR ‘HEPAR -PASC’:tn OR ‘HEPAR/STANNUM I’:tn OR ‘HEPARANOX H’:tn  OR ‘HEPATO -DRAINOL’:tn OR ‘HEPEEL’:tn OR ‘HEPEEL N’:tn OR ‘HEPLANT’:tn OR ‘INJECTIO HEPATIS  AMPULLEN’:tn OR ‘LAGOSA’:tn OR ‘LEBER -GALLE -KOMPLEX L’:tn OR ‘LITHIAS -CYL L’:tn OR  ‘LYCOPODIUM COMP.’:tn OR ‘MARIANON HEPAR’:tn OR ‘MARIENDISTEL’:tn OR  ‘MARIENDISTELFRÜCHTE’:tn OR ‘MAX STRENGTH MILK THISTLE TABLETS’:tn OR ‘MILK THISTLE’:tn OR  ‘NARANOGAL’:tn OR ‘ORGANUM QUADRUPLEX’:tn OR ‘PFLÜGERPLEX CARDUUS 351 H’:tn OR  ‘PHYTOHEPAR NOVO’:tn OR ‘PHÖNO VEN’:tn OR ‘QUERCUS’:tn OR ‘R7’:tn OR ‘SE MARIENDISTEL’:tn  OR ‘SILEGON’:tn OR ‘SILIBENE’:tn OR ‘SILICUR’:tn OR ‘SILIMARIN’:tn OR ‘SILINAT’:tn OR  ‘SILYGAMMA’:tn OR ‘SILYMARIN’:tn OR ‘SYLICYNAR’:tn OR ‘SYLIMAROL’:tn OR ‘SYLIVIT’:tn OR  ‘TROPFEN GEGEN LEBER -GALLE BESCHWERDEN’:tn OR ‘VENSA’:tn OR ‘FORFIG’:tn OR ‘LAGOSA’:tn OR  ‘LEGALON’:tn OR ‘MARIENDISTEL’:tn OR ‘SYLIMAROL’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   321.  Soya   ‘SOYA -BEAN OIL REFINED’ OR ‘RAFFINIERTES SOJAÖL’ OR ‘SOYA -BEAN OIL, REFINED’ OR ‘REFINED  SOYBEAN OIL’ OR ‘RAFFINIERTES SOJABOHNENÖL’ OR ‘RAFFINERAD SOJABÖNSOLJA’ OR ‘SOJAOLJA,  RAFFINERAD’ OR ‘SOJINO OLJE, RAFINIRANO’ OR ‘RAFINOVANÝ SÓJOVÝ OLEJ’ OR ‘ULEI DE SOIA,  RAFINAT’ OR ‘ULEI DE SOIA RAFINAT’ OR ‘ÓLEO DE SOJA, REFINADO’ OR ‘SOYAOLJE, RENSET’ OR  ‘GERAFFINEERDE SOJABOONOLIE’ OR ‘GEZUIVERDE SOJAOLIE’ OR ‘GERAFFINEERDE SOJAOLIE’ OR  ‘RAFINĒTA SOJAS PUPIŅU EĻĻA’ OR ‘ATTĪRĪTA SOJAS PUPU EĻĻA’ OR ‘RAFINUOTAS SOJŲ ALIEJUS’ OR  ‘SOIAE OLEUM RAFFINATUM’ OR ‘FINOMÍTOTT SZÓJAOLAJ’ OR ‘FINOMÍTOTT SZÓJABABOLAJ’ OR  ‘FINOMÍTOTT SZÓJA OLAJ’ OR ‘SOJA (HUILE DE) RAFFINÉE’ OR ‘PUHDISTETTU SOIJAÖLJY’ OR  ‘SOIJAÖLJY, PUHDISTETTU’ OR ‘RAFINEERITUD SOJAÕLI’ OR ‘RAFINEERITUD SOJAOAÕLI’ OR  ‘RAFFINIERTES SOJANÖL’ OR ‘GEREINIGTES SOJAÖL’ OR ‘RAFFINIERTES SOJAÖL’ OR ‘SOJAOLIE,  RENSET’ OR ‘CIŠTENÝ SOJOVÝ OLEJ’ OR ‘SOY ISOFLAVONES’ OR ‘SOYA OIL’ OR ‘SOYBEAN OIL’ OR  ‘SOYA -BEAN OIL’ OR ‘SOYA BEAN OIL’ OR ‘SOJABOHNENÖL’ OR ‘GLYCINE MAX SEED OIL’ OR  ‘SOJAOLJA’ OR ‘SOJABÖNSOLJA’ OR ‘ÓLEO DE SOJA’ OR ‘OLEJ SOJOWY’ OR ‘SOJABOONOLIE’ OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 310/368   ‘SOJAOLIE’ OR ‘OLIO DI SEMI DI SOIA’ OR ‘OLIO DI SOIA’ OR ‘HUILE DE SOJA’ OR ‘SOIJAÖLJY’ OR  ‘ACEITE DE SOJA’ OR ‘SOJAÖL’ OR ‘SOJABOHNENÖL’ OR ‘SOJAOLIE’ OR ‘SOJABØNNEOLIE’ OR ‘SOJOVÝ  OLEJ’ OR ‘SOYBEAN EXTRACT’ OR ‘GLYCINE MAX (SOYBEAN) SEED EXTRACT’ OR ‘REFINED OLIVE OIL  AND REFINED SOYA OIL’ OR ‘RAFFINERAD OLIVOLJA OCH RAFFINERAD SOJAOLJA’ OR ‘RAFINIRANO  OLIVNO OLJE IN RAFINIRANO SOJINO OLJE’ OR ‘OLIVOVÝ OLEJ RAFINOVANÝ A SÓJOVÝ OLEJ  RAFINOVANÝ’ OR ‘ULEI DE MĂSLINE RAFINAT ŞI ULEI DE SOIA RAFINAT’ OR ‘AZEITE REFINADO E  ÓLEO DE SOJA REFINADO’ OR ‘OLEJ Z OLIWEK OCZYSZCZONY OLEJ SOJOWY OCZYSZCZONY’ OR  ‘RENSET OLIVENOLJE OG RENSET SOYAOLJE’ OR ‘GERAFFINEERDE OLIJFOLIE EN GERAFFINEERDE  SOJAOLIE’ OR ‘RAFINĒTA OLĪVELLA + RAFINĒTA SOJAS PUPINU ELLA’ OR ‘RAFINUOTAS ALYVUOGIU  ALIEJUS IR RAFINUOTAS SOJU ALIEJUS’ OR ‘OLIO DI OLIVA PURIFICATO E OLIO DI SOIA PURIFICATO’  OR ‘HREINSUÐ ÓLÍFUOLÍA + HREINSUÐ SOJABAUNAOLÍA’ OR ‘FINOMÍTOTT OLÍVAOLAJ +  FINOMÍTOTT SZÓJABABOLAJ’ OR ‘HUILE DOLIVE RAFFINÉE ET HUILE DE SOJA RAFFINÉE’ OR  ‘PUHDISTETTUA OLIIVIÖLJYÄ JA PUHDISTETTUA SOIJAÖLJYÄ’ OR ‘RAFINEERITUD OLIIVIÕLI +  RAFINEERITUD SOJAÕLI’ OR ‘ACEITE DE OLIVA PURIFICADO Y ACEITE DE SOJA PURIFICADO’ OR  ‘REFINED OLIVE OIL AND REFINED SOYA OIL’ OR ‘RAFFINIERTES OLIVENÖL UND RAFFINIERTES  SOJAÖL’ OR ‘RENSET OLIVENOLIE OG RENSET SOJAOLIE’ OR ‘RAFINOVANÉHO OLIVOVÉHO OLEJE A  RAFINOVANÉHO SOJOVÉHO OLEJE’ OR ‘SOYA OIL, PURIFIED’ OR ‘OLEJ SOJOWY, OCZYSZCZONY’ OR  ‘PURIFIED SOYA -BEAN OIL’ OR ‘SOJAE OLEUM INSAPONIFICABILE’ OR ‘BALNEOCONZEN N’ OR  ‘BALNEUM  HERMAL  PLUS’:tn OR ‘BALNEUM HERMAL’:tn OR ‘BALNEUM PLUS’:tn OR ‘BANHÓLEUM’:tn  OR ‘ESSENTIALE’:tn OR ‘HAUT REGULATIV ÖLBAD’:tn OR ‘INTRALIPID’:tn OR ‘INTRALIPIDE’:tn OR  ‘KOMBILIPID’:tn OR ‘LECITHIN’:tn OR ‘LIPOFUNDIN MCT’:tn OR ‘LIPOFUNDIN MCT/LCT’:tn OR  ‘LIPOFUNDIN S’:tn OR ‘LIPOFUNDINA MCT/LCT’:tn OR ‘LIPOMIX’:tn OR ‘LIPOPHARM’:tn OR  ‘LIPOSTABIL’:tn OR ‘MEDIALIPIDE’:tn OR ‘NORMOSOY’:tn OR ‘OPTILIPID’:tn OR ‘PIASCLEDINE’:tn OR  ‘PLEGINER’:tn OR ‘SMOFLIPID’:tn OR ‘SOYACAL’:tn OR ‘VASOLIPID’:tn OR ‘ZERONEUM’:tn OR  ‘CLINOLEIC’:tn OR ‘GR270773’:tn OR ‘INTRAFAT’:tn OR ‘INTRALIPID’:tn OR ‘INTRALIPOS’:tn OR  ‘LIPOFUNDIN MCT’:tn OR ‘LIPOFUNDIN MCT/LCT’:tn OR ‘LIPOSYN III’:tn OR ‘LIPOVENÖS’:tn OR  ‘MALENA’:tn OR ‘MEDIALIPIDE’:tn OR ‘PIASCLEDINE’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   322.  Arnica   ‘ARNICA FLOWER’ OR ‘ARNICAE FLOS’ OR ‘ARNICA’ OR ‘ARNICA MONTANA, PLANTA TOTA REC.,  ETHANOL. EXTR. 1:1,1’ OR ‘ARNICA MONTANA, PLANTA TOTA REC., ETHANOL. EXTR. 1:2,1’ OR  ‘ARNICA EXTRACT’ OR ‘ARNICA’ OR ‘ARNICA MONTANA’ OR ‘ARNICA TINCTURE’ OR ‘ARNICAE     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 311/368   TINCTURA’ OR ‘ARNIKAS TINKTŪRA’ OR ‘ARNICA AD USUM EXTERNUM’ OR ‘ARNICAE HERBAE  TINCTURA (1:5)’ OR ‘AQUEUS DRUG EXTRACT WITH ALUMINIUMTRIFORMIATE (ARNICA BLOOMS,  CHAMOMILE BLOOMS, SAGE LEAVES)’ OR ‘THICK EXTRACT OF ARNICA FLOWERS AND POT MARIGOLD  FLOWERS’ OR ‘WYCIĄG GĘSTY Z KWIATU ARNIKI I KWIATU NAGIETKA’ OR ‘ARNIKATINKTUR DEV  (1:10); AUSZUGSMITTEL ETHANOL 70 % /V/V)’ OR ‘ARNICA FLOWER TINCTURE (1:10) EXTRACTING  SOLVENT: ETHANOL 70 % (V/V)’ OR ‘TINKTUR AUS ARNIKABLÜTEN (1:10), AUSZUGSMITTEL:  ETHANOL 70 % (V/V)’ OR ‘TINKTUR AUS ARNIKABLÜTEN (1:10), AUSZUGSMITTEL: ETHANOL 70%  (V/V)’ OR ‘AESCULUS COMPOSITUM -HEEL-TROPFEN’ OR ‘AESCULUS PENTARKAN D’ OR ‘ANGIN -HEEL’  OR ‘APIS COMP’ OR ‘APIS/ARNICA’ OR ‘ARNICA / BETULA COMP’ OR ‘ARNICA / FORMICA COMP’ OR  ‘ARNICA / LEVISTICUM D3 COMP.’ OR ‘ARNICA / LEVISTICUM D6 COMP’ OR ‘ARNICA / SYMPHYTUM  COMP’ OR ‘ARNICA COMP.’:tn OR ‘ARNICA E PLANTA TOTA’:tn OR ‘ARNICA HEVERT’:tn OR ‘ARNICA  MEDIFLOR’:tn OR ‘ARNICA MONTANA’:tn OR ‘ARNICA PENTARKAN S’:tn OR ‘ARNICA, COMPRESSE  IMPRÉGNÉE’:tn OR ‘ARNICA, FLOS H’:tn OR ‘ARNICA, PLANTA TOTA’:tn OR ‘ARNICA -CREME -HEEL S’:tn  OR ‘ARNICA -ESSENZ’:tn OR ‘ARNICA -SALBE’:tn OR ‘ARNICA/AURUM’:tn OR ‘ARNICA/PLUMBUM  COMP.’:tn OR ‘ARNICA/PLUMBUM MELLITUM’:tn OR ‘ARNICALME’:tn OR ‘ARNICAN’:tn OR ‘ARNIDOL’:tn  OR ‘ARNIGEL’:tn OR ‘ARNIKA’:tn OR ‘ARNIKA -ESSENZ’:tn OR ‘ARNIKA -SALBE’:tn OR ‘ARNIKA - TINKTUR’:tn OR ‘ARNIKA -TROPFEN BIO -DIÄT’:tn OR ‘ARNIKAFIT -GEL’:tn OR ‘ARNIKAMED’:tn OR  ‘ARTHRO -DRAINOL’:tn OR ‘ARTICULATIO TALOCRURALIS COMP.’:tn OR ‘AUROCARD’:tn OR ‘AURUM  JODATUM PENTARKAN H’:tn OR ‘BARIJODEEL’:tn OR ‘BARIJODEEL -TABLETTEN’:tn OR ‘BETULA/ARNICA  COMP.’:tn OR ‘BRYONIA OLIGOPLEX’:tn OR ‘CAMPHORA OLIGOPLEX’:tn OR ‘CAPILLARON VERTIGO’:tn  OR ‘CARDIODORON COMP’:tn OR ‘CARDIOSELECT’:tn OR ‘CAULOPHYLLUM PENTARKAN’:tn OR  ‘CEFADYSBASIN SE’:tn OR ‘CEREBELLUM COMP.’:tn OR ‘CEREBRAL -DO’:tn OR ‘CEREBRUM  COMPOSITUM NM’:tn OR ‘CIONAL’:tn OR ‘CORONAR -HOMOCENT S’:tn OR ‘CRATAEGUS PENTARKAN  T’:tn OR ‘DISCI COMP. CUM’:tn OR ‘DISCI/RHUS TOXICODENDRON COMP.’:tn OR ‘DISCI/VISCUM  COMP. CUM ARGENTO’:tn OR ‘DROSETUX’:tn OR ‘GLONOINUM PENTARKAN’:tn OR ‘GOLDTROPFEN  S’:tn OR ‘HAUTTONIKUM’:tn OR ‘HOMEOGENE 9’:tn OR ‘KLOSTERFRAU ARNIKA SCHMERZ -SALBE’:tn  OR ‘KNEIPP ARNIKA’:tn OR ‘KREISLAUF -KOMPLEX L’:tn OR ‘LÖWE -KOMPLEX NR. 12 AESCULUS’:tn OR  ‘MAGNESIUM PHOSPHORICUM COMP.’:tn OR ‘MAGNESIUM SULFURICUM/OVARIA COMP.’:tn OR  ‘MANDRAGORA COMP.’:tn OR ‘MED. ARNIKA SALBE’:tn OR ‘MED. SPORT GEL’:tn OR ‘MED. SPORT  SALBE AKTIV’:tn OR ‘MILCHBILDUNGSÖL’:tn OR ‘MOBILOPAS’:tn OR ‘MUSCULAR PAIN RELIEF’:tn OR  ‘OSSIDAL’:tn OR ‘PARAGRIPPE’:tn OR ‘PASCOE -AGIL HOM’:tn OR ‘PFLÜGERPLEX ARNICA 126 N’:tn OR  ‘PFLÜGERPLEX MILLEFOLIUM 102’:tn OR ‘PFLÜGERPLEX SEPIA 340 H’:tn OR ‘PHÖNIX  HYDRARGYRUM’:tn OR ‘PHÖNIX LYMPHOPHÖN’:tn OR ‘PHÖNIX PHÖNOHEPAN’:tn OR ‘PHÖNIX  SOLIDAGO’:tn OR ‘PHÖNIX STELLARIA’:tn OR ‘PLANTACARD N’:tn OR ‘POIKIVEN’:tn OR ‘R2’:tn OR  ‘R73’:tn OR ‘RHEUMA -HEEL’:tn OR ‘RHEUMODORON  1’:tn OR ‘RHEUMODORON  102 A’:tn OR ‘SANTA  FLORA S’:tn OR ‘SCLEROCALMAN’:tn OR ‘SILICEA S OLIGOPLEX’:tn OR ‘SYMPHYTUM COMP.’:tn OR  ‘TENDO/ALLIUM CEPA COMP.’:tn OR ‘TERRA -SPORT’:tn OR ‘THÜRINGER ARNIKATINKTUR’:tn OR  ‘TRAUMA’:tn OR ‘TRAUMAKATT’:tn OR ‘TROMBOGĒLS’:tn OR ‘TROPFEN GEGEN  KREISLAUFBESCHWERDEN’:tn OR ‘TROPFEN GEGEN RHEUMA UND GICHT’:tn OR ‘VENEN -KOMPLEX’:tn  OR ‘VENO -LOGES N’:tn OR ‘VENOKATT’:tn OR ‘VISCUM PENTARKAN H’:tn OR ‘WIBOTIN HM’:tn OR  ‘WIRBEL -KOMPLEX L’:tn OR ‘ZEEL’:tn OR ‘ARNICA BRAUER’:tn OR ‘ARNIKA’:tn OR ‘ATROSAN’:tn OR  ‘DOC’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 312/368   OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   323.  Ginkgo   ‘GINKGO BILOBAE EXTRACTUM SICCUM NORMATUM’ OR ‘GINKGO BILOBAE EXTRACTUM SICCUM  NORMATUM’ OR ‘GINKGO BILOBAE FOLII EXTRACTUM SICCUM’ OR ‘SUCHÉHO EXTRAKTU Z LISTOV  GINKGO BILOBA’ OR ‘EXTRACT USCAT DIN FRUNZE DE GINKGO BILOBA’ OR ‘EXTRACT USCAT DIN  FRUNZA DE GINKGO BILOBA’ OR ‘SUCHEGO EKSTRAKTU Z LIŚCI GINKGO BILOBAE’ OR ‘DROOG  EXTRACT VAN GINKGO BILOBA BLADEREN’ OR ‘GINKGO BILOBAE FOLII EXTRACTUM SICCUM’ OR  ‘EXTRACTO SECO DE HOJAS DE GINKGO BILOBA’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS GINKGO -BILOBA - BLÄTTERN’ OR ‘GINKGO LEAF EXTRACT’ OR ‘GINKGO TREE LEAVES EXTRACT’ OR ‘GINKGO BILOBA’ OR  ‘GINKGO BILOBA’ OR ‘EXTRACTO DE GINKGO BILOBA’ OR ‘EXTRACTO DE GINKGO BILOBA’ OR  ‘STANDARDISED GINKGO BILOBA EXTRACT’ OR ‘EXTRAIT DE GINKGO BILOBA STANDARDISÉ’ OR  ‘GINKGO BILOBAE FOLIUM TINCTURA (1:5)’ OR ‘TINCTURE FROM GINKGO LEAF 1:5’ OR ‘GINSENG  EXTRACTUM SICCUM NORMATUM’ OR ‘STANDARDIZED GINSENG EXTRACT G115’ OR ‘GINSENG  EXTRACT G115’ OR ‘PANAX GINSENG C.A. MEYER RADIX EXTRAKT (G115)’ OR ‘SUCHÝ ŽENŠENOVÝ  EXTRAKT ŠTANDARDIZOVANÝ’ OR ‘EXTRACT STANDARDIZAT DE PANAX GINSENG’ OR ‘PANAX  GINSENG C.A. MEYER RADIX EKSTRAKT’ OR ‘STANDARDIZÁLT GINSZENG KIVONAT’ OR ‘PANAX  GINSENG C.A. MEYER EXTRACT. (G115)’ OR ‘PANAX GINSENG RAD. EXTR. SPIR. SICC’ OR ‘EXTRACTO  DE GINSENG G 115 ESTANDARIZADO’ OR ‘STANDARDIZED HIGHLY CONCENTRATED GINSENG  EXTRACT G 115’ OR ‘STANDARDISIERTER PANAX -GINSENG -EXTRAKT G115’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT  AUS GINSENGWURZEL’ OR ‘PANAX GINSENG C. A. MEYER, RADIX TØREKSTRAKT’ OR ‘GINSENG  EXTRACTUM SICCUM NORMATUM’ OR ‘GINKGO LEAF DRY EXTRACT, REFINED AND QUANTIFIED’ OR  ‘EKSTRAKT (SOM TØREKSTRAKT, RAFFINERET) AF GINKGO BILOBA L., FOLIUM (GINKGOBLAD)’ OR  ‘GINKGO DRY EXTRACT, REFINED AND QUANTIFIED’ OR ‘GINKGONIS EXTRACTUM SICCUM  RAFFINATUM ET QUANTIFICATUM’ OR ‘QUANTIFIZIERTER, RAFFINIERTER GINKGOTROCKENEXTRAKT’  OR ‘ABOLIBE’:tn OR ‘ALZ’:tn OR ‘BILOBA’:tn OR ‘BILOBA SCHWABE’:tn OR ‘BILOBAN’:tn OR  ‘BILOBIL’:tn OR ‘BILOGINK’:tn OR ‘BIO -BILOBA’:tn OR ‘CEREBOKAN’:tn OR ‘CEREGINKGO H’:tn OR  ‘CEREMIN’:tn OR ‘CRATON’:tn OR ‘EFI’:tn OR ‘FITOKEY GINKGO FORTE’:tn OR ‘FLORAGINK’:tn OR  ‘FOCUZINE’:tn OR ‘FOCUZINE MONO’:tn OR ‘GINCOBEN’:tn OR ‘GINCOSAN’:tn OR ‘GINGILOBA’:tn OR  ‘GINGIO’:tn OR ‘GINGIUM’:tn OR ‘GINGOPRET’:tn OR ‘GINKGO’:tn OR ‘GINKGO BELUPO’:tn OR  ‘GINKGO BILOBA’:tn OR ‘GINKGO BIOGARAN’:tn OR ‘GINKGO’:tn OR ‘GINKGO SCHWABE’:tn OR  ‘GINKGO STADA’:tn OR ‘GINKGO -MAREN’:tn OR ‘GINKGOFOL’:tn OR ‘GINKGOLD’:tn OR ‘GINKOBIL’:tn  OR ‘GINKODILAT’:tn OR ‘GINKOFAR’:tn OR ‘GINKOGINK’:tn OR ‘GINKOKÁN’:tn OR ‘GINKOMED’:tn OR  ‘GINKOPLANT’:tn OR ‘GINKOPUR’:tn OR ‘HEXABILOBA FT’:tn OR ‘INCEBRAL’:tn OR ‘ISOGINKGO’:tn OR  ‘MEMORIA’:tn OR ‘NORMOGINKGO’:tn OR ‘REMINCIUM’:tn OR ‘RÖKAN’:tn OR ‘SE GINKGO’:tn OR  ‘TANAKAN’:tn OR ‘TANAKENE’:tn OR ‘TAVONIN’:tn OR ‘TEBOFORTAN’:tn OR ‘TEBOKAN’:tn OR  ‘TEBOKAN FORTE’:tn OR ‘TEBONIN’:tn OR ‘TEBOTOP’:tn OR ‘TEMPEL’:tn OR ‘TRAMISAL’:tn OR  ‘VENOFORTON’:tn OR ‘VITACARE’:tn OR ‘VITALOGINK’:tn OR ‘BILOBAN’:tn OR ‘BILOBIL’:tn OR  ‘BIOFLAVIN’:tn OR ‘CEREMIN’:tn OR ‘DINATON’:tn OR ‘EQUITAM’:tn OR ‘GINCOSAN’:tn OR ‘GINGIO’:tn  OR ‘GINGIUM’:tn OR ‘GINGOSOL ECO NATURA’:tn OR ‘GINKOBIL’:tn OR ‘GINKODILAT’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 313/368   ‘GINKOMED’:tn OR ‘GINKYO’:tn OR ‘ROKAN’:tn OR ‘SYMFONA’:tn OR ‘SYMFONA FORTE’:tn OR  ‘TANAKAN’:tn OR ‘TANAKENE’:tn OR ‘TAVONIN’:tn OR ‘TEBOFORTIN’:tn OR ‘TEBOKAN’:tn OR  ‘TEBONIN’:tn OR ‘VASODIL’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   324.  Matricaria   ‘MATRICARIAE AETHEROLEUM’ OR ‘MATRICARIA OIL’ OR ‘MATRICARIA ESSENTIAL OIL’ OR ‘HUILE  ESSENTIELLE DE MATRICAIRE’ OR ‘CHAMOMILLAE HERBAE EXTRACTUM SICCUM (7 -9 : 1)’ OR  ‘MATRICARIAE FLOS’ OR ‘MATRICARIA FLOWER’ OR ‘MATRICARIAE FLOS’ OR ‘MATRICAIRE (FLEUR  DE)’ OR ‘KAMILLENBLÜTEN’ OR ‘MATRICARIA LIQUID EXTRACT’ OR ‘MATRICARIAE EXTRACTUM  FLUIDUM’ OR ‘MATRICARIAE EXTRACTUM FLUIDUM’ OR ‘MATRICAIRE (EXTRAIT FLUIDE DE)’ OR  ‘EXTRACTO FLUIDO MATRICARIA CHAMOMILLA’ OR ‘FLUIDEXTRAKT AUS KAMILLENBLÜTEN’ OR  ‘CHAMOMILE’ OR ‘CHAMOMILLA’ OR ‘CAMOMILE’ OR ‘RUMIANEK’ OR ‘KAMILLE’ OR ‘KAMILLE’ OR  ‘KAMILLE -TINCTUUR’ OR ‘CAMOMILLA TINTURA’ OR ‘CAMOMILLE (TEINTURE DE)’ OR ‘MATRICARIA  RECUTITA’ OR ‘MATRICARIA CHAMOMILLA’ OR ‘MATRICARIA HYDROALCOHOLIC LIQUID EXTRACT’ OR  ‘EXTRACT LICHID HIDROALCOOLIC DIN FLORI DE MUŞEŢEL’ OR ‘CHAMOMILLAE ANTHODIUM’ OR  ‘CHAMOMILLAE EXTRACTUM’ OR ‘TINCTURE OF MATRICARIA’ OR ‘MATRICARIAE EXTRACTUM SPISSUM’  OR ‘WYCIĄG GĘSTY Z RUMIANKU’ OR ‘MATRICARIAE FLORIS EXTRACTUM FLUIDUM (1:1)’ OR ‘WYCIĄG  PŁYNNY Z RUMIANKU POSPOLITEGO (1:1)’ OR ‘AMMI VISNAGA COMP.’ OR ‘ASHTON AND PARSONS  INFANTS’ OR ‘AZULAN’ OR ‘AZUSEPTOL’ OR ‘BELLADONNA COMP.’ OR ‘BELLADONNA/CHAMOMILLA’ OR  ‘BIRKENKOHLE COMP.’ OR ‘BOBOFEN FIX’ OR ‘BOLUS ALBA COMP.’ OR ‘CAMILIA’ OR ‘CARUM CARVI’  OR ‘CEFASPASMON’ OR ‘CHAMOMILLA’ OR ‘CHAMOMILLA RECUTITA URTINKTUR’ OR ‘CHAMOMILLA,  RADIX’ OR ‘CHAMOMILLA/NICOTIANA’ OR ‘COLIKIND’ OR ‘DARAM’ OR ‘DENISIA NR. 9’ OR  ‘DENTOKIND’:tn OR ‘DERMAZULEN’:tn OR ‘DIARRHOESAN’:tn OR ‘ENTEROKIND’:tn OR ‘EUKAMILLAT  ’:tn OR ‘GALLOSELECT’:tn OR ‘GASTRITOL LIQUID’:tn OR ‘HEMOROL’:tn OR ‘HEMOROL ’:tn OR ‘JODUM  N OLIGOPLEX’:tn OR ‘KAMAGEL’:tn OR ‘KAMILLAN’:tn OR ‘KAMILLENBLÜTEN’:tn OR ‘KAMILLENÖL  KAMILLIN’:tn OR ‘KAMILLOSAN KONZENTRAT’:tn OR ‘KAMILLOSAN WUND - UND HEILBAD’:tn OR  ‘KATTWIGAST’:tn OR ‘KOLIPAS’:tn OR ‘KOSZYCZEK RUMIANKU’:tn OR ‘MAGNESIUM PHOSPHORICUM  PENTARKAN’:tn OR ‘MED. KAMILLEN KONZENTRAT’:tn OR ‘MENO -CYL L’:tn OR ‘NEURALGIE -KOMPLEX  L’:tn OR ‘NICOTIANA COMP.’:tn OR ‘NUX VOMICA/NICOTIANA COMP.’:tn OR ‘OHRENTROPFEN’:tn OR  ‘OSANIT’:tn OR ‘OTODOLOR’:tn OR ‘OTODOLOR FORTE’:tn OR ‘OXALIS COMP.’:tn OR ‘PFLÜGERPLEX  BRYONIA 311 HM’:tn OR ‘PLEXUS -CYL L’:tn OR ‘PULVIS STOMACHICUS CUM BELLADONNA’:tn OR  ‘QUIETUDE’:tn OR ‘R4’:tn OR ‘R5’:tn OR ‘ROMAZULAN’:tn OR ‘RUMIANEK FIX’:tn OR ‘SEDALIA’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 314/368   ‘SPASMOSYX’:tn OR ‘STRESS RELIEF’:tn OR ‘SUMBULUS N OLIGOPLEX’:tn OR ‘UROSEPT’:tn OR  ‘VERATRUM COMP.’:tn OR ‘VIBURCOL PLUS’:tn OR ‘VIBURCOL -PHIOLEN LÖSUNG ZUM EINNEHMEN’:tn  OR ‘XANTHOXYLON S OLIGOPLEX’:tn OR ‘ZAHNKÜGELCHEN’:tn OR ‘ZAPOLIN’:tn OR ‘CAMILIA’:tn OR  ‘KAMILLOSAN’:tn OR ‘NOTTA’:tn OR ‘UROSEPT’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   325.  Cimicfuga   ‘CIMICIFUGA’ OR ‘CIMICIFUGA RACEMOSA’ OR ‘ACTAEA RACEMOSA’ OR ‘BLACK COHOSH’ OR ‘DRY  EXTRACT FROM CIMICIFUGAE RACEMOSAE RHIZOMA’ OR ‘DRY EXTRACT OF CIMICIFUGA RHIZOME  (DER 4.5 -8.5:1)’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS CIMICIFUGAWURZELSTOCK’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS  CIMICIFUGA -WURZELSTOCK’ OR ‘CIMICIFUGAE RHIZOMA EXTRACTUM SICCUM (4.1 - 6.5 : 1),  ETHANOL 60% (V/V)’ OR ‘CIMICIFUGAWURZELSTOCK -TROCKENEXTRAKT (ETHANOL 60% V/V), DEV  4,5-8,5:1’ OR ‘DRY EXTRACT OF CIMICIFUGA ROOT’ OR ‘CIMICIFUGA -WURZELSTOCKEXTRAKT’ OR  ‘AGARICUS N OLIGOPLEX’ OR ‘AGNUKLIMAN ALPINAMED’ OR ‘AGNUS’:tn OR ‘BIOKLIMAN’:tn OR  ‘BOMAKLIM’:tn OR ‘CEFAKLIMAN MONO’:tn OR ‘CEFAKLIMAN S’:tn OR ‘CIMICI -SABONA ’:tn OR  ‘CIMICIFUGA’:tn OR ‘CIMICIFUGA -HOMACCORD’:tn OR ‘CIMICIFUGA -HOMACCORD -AMPULLEN’:tn OR  ‘CIMICIFUGA -HOMACCORD -TROPFEN’:tn OR ‘CIMICIFUGAE RHIZOMA EXTRACTUM SICCUM (4.1 - 6.5 :  1), ETHANOL 60% (V/V) RATIOPHARM’:tn OR ‘CIMICIN’:tn OR ‘CIMIFUGAN FT K&P’:tn OR  ‘CIMISAN’:tn OR ‘CLIMOFEMIN’:tn OR ‘CYCLAMEN PENTARKAN N’:tn OR ‘DISCUS COMPOSITUM’:tn OR  ‘DOLOR -ORTHIM’:tn OR ‘DOLORA’:tn OR ‘DR. BÖHM  TRAUBENSILBERKERZE’:tn OR ‘FEMI SANOL’:tn  OR ‘FEMI -SABONA ’:tn OR ‘FEMIKLIMAN UNO’:tn OR ‘FEMILLA’:tn OR ‘FEMINON C’:tn OR ‘GALAFEM’:tn  OR ‘GELSEMIUM -HOMACCORD’:tn OR ‘HANOFEMIN’:tn OR ‘HEWEKLIMAN’:tn OR ‘KLIMAFEMIN’:tn OR  ‘KLIMAKTIN’:tn OR ‘KLIMAKTOPLANT N’:tn OR ‘KOFEMIN’:tn OR ‘METRO -ADNEX -INJEEL’:tn OR  ‘MITCHELLANDO JACOBUS’:tn OR ‘NARANOFEM H’:tn OR ‘PASCOFEMIN’:tn OR ‘PASCOLIBRIN’:tn OR  ‘PFLÜGERPLEX COLOCYNTHIS 192 H’:tn OR ‘PFLÜGERPLEX CONVALLARIA 137 H’:tn OR ‘PUJOLA ’:tn  OR ‘R10’:tn OR ‘R16’:tn OR ‘R75’:tn OR ‘REMENS’:tn OR ‘REMIFEMIN’:tn OR ‘REMIFEMIN MONO’:tn OR  ‘RHEUMA -PASC’:tn OR ‘SINEI’:tn OR ‘WECHSELJAHR -KOMPLEX L’:tn OR ‘ZINCUM’:tn OR ‘APLAUSE’:tn  OR ‘CIMIFEMIN’:tn OR ‘KLIMADYNON’:tn OR ‘KLIMADYNON UNO’:tn OR ‘MENOFEM’:tn OR  ‘MENSIFEM’:tn OR ‘REMIFEMIN’:tn OR ‘YMEA’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 315/368   'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   326.  Aesculus   ‘HIPPOCASTANI CORTICIS EXTRACTUM SICCUM; DER: 40 -90:1; EKSTRAHENT: METANOL 90 %’ OR  ‘WYCIĄG SUCHY Z KORY KASZTANOWCA DER: 40 -90:1; EKSTRAHENT: METANOL 90 %)’ OR  ‘EKSTRAKT DIVJEGA KOSTANJA’ OR ‘EKSTRAKT AF AESCULUS HIPPOCASTANUM’ OR ‘HIPPOCASTANI  SEMEN, EXTRACTUM SICCUM’ OR ‘EXTRACT USCAT DE SEMINŢE DE CASTAN SĂLBATIC’ OR  ‘HIPPOCASTANI SEMINIS EXTRACTUM SICCUM’ OR ‘ZIRGKASTANIS’ OR ‘TORRT EXTRAKT FRÅN  AESCULUS HIPPOCASTANUM L., FRÖ (HÄSTKASTANJ)’ OR ‘EKSTRAKT (SOM TØRRET EKSTRAKT) AV  AESCULUS HIPPOCASTANUM L. , SEMEN’ OR ‘DROOG EXTRACT VAN AESCULUS HIPPOCASTANUM L.,  SEMEN (PAARDEKASTANJE)’ OR ‘EXTRAIT SEC DE AESCULUS HIPPOCASTANUM L., SEMEN (MARRON  DINDE)’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS AESCULUS HIPPOCASTANUM L., SEMEN  (ROSSKASTANIENSAMEN)’ OR ‘EKSTRAKT (SOM TØREKSTRAKT) AF AESCULUS HIPPOCASTANUM L.,  SEMEN (ALMINDELIG HESTEKASTANIE, FRØ)’ OR ‘HIPPOCASTANI SEMEN’ OR ‘HORSE CHESTNUT  EXTRACT’ OR ‘EXTRAIT DE MARRON DINDE’ OR ‘TEINTURE DE MARRON DINDE 1/10’ OR ‘HORSE  CHESTNUT DRY EXTRACT, HYDROALCOHOLIC’ OR ‘HIPPOCASTANI FRUCTUS INTRACTUM RECENTIS  (1:1)’ OR ‘AESCULUS HIPPOCASTANUM’ OR ‘IPPOCASTANO’ OR ‘CASTAGNO DE INDIAS’ OR  ‘HIPPOCASTANI SEMEN EXTRACTUM SICCUM (5,3 - 7,7 : 1), ADJUSTED TO 40 MG OF  TRITERPENE  GLYCOSIDES, CALCULATED AS ANHYDROUS ESCINE, EXTRACTION MEDIUM: METHANOL 80%’ OR  ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS ROSSKASTANIENSAMEN (5,3 - 7,7 : 1), EINGESTELLT AUF 40 MG  TRITERPENGLYCOSIDE BERECHNET ALS WASSERFREIES AESCIN, AUSZUGSMITTEL: METHANOL 80%  (V/V)’ OR ‘HIPPOCASTANI SEMINIS EXTRACTUM SPISSUM’ OR ‘WYCIĄG GĘSTY Z NASION  KASZTANOWCA’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS ROSSKASTANIENSAMEN’ OR ‘HIPPOCASTANI EXTR.  SEMEN SICC. NORM. (VADGESZTENYEMAG SZÁRAZ KIVONAT, DROG -EXTRAKTUM ARÁNY 4,5 - 5,5: 1)  AMELY MEGFELEL 50 MG ESZCINNEK. KIVONÓSZER: ETILALKOHOL 50% M/M’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT  AUS ROSSKASTANIENSAMEN (4,5 -5,5:1), EINGESTELLT AUF 50 MG TRITERPENGLYKOSIDE,  BERECHNET ALS WASSERFREIES AESCIN; AUSZUGSMITTEL: ETHANOL 50 % (M/M)’ OR ‘EXTRACTUM  COMPOSITUM SPISSUM EX: CYTISI SCOPARII HERBA, HIPPOCASTANI CORTICE, TORMENTILLAE  RHIZOMATE, MILLEFOLII HERBA’ OR ‘WYCIAG GESTY ZLOZONY Z: ZIELA ZARNOWCA, KORY  KASZTANOWCA,KLACZA PIECIORNIKA,ZIELA KRWAWNIKA’ OR ‘AESCULUS SEED DRY EXTRACT’ OR  ‘HORSE CHESTNUT DRY EXTRACT’ OR ‘WYCIĄG SUCHY Z NASION KASZTANOWCA’ OR  ‘ROßKASTANIENSAMEN -TROCKENEXTRAKT’ OR ‘HORSE CHESTNUT SEED EXTRACT’ OR ‘ZIRGKASTAŅA  SĒKLU EKSTRAKTS’ OR ‘ESTRATTO SECCO DI IPPOCASTANO’ OR ‘ROSSKASTANIENSAMEN -EXTRAKT’  OR ‘EXTRACTUM COMPOSITUM (1 : 1 -1,2) EX: HIPPOCASTANI SEMINE – 27 P., BETAE ESCULENTA  RADICE – 19 P., TILIAE FLORE – 15 P., FAGOPYRI HERBA – 12 P., CRATAEGI FOLIO CUM FLORE – 11  P., SOLIDAGINIS HERBA – 4 P.; EKSTRAHENT – ETANOL 60% (V/V)’ OR ‘AESCORIN’ OR  ‘AESCULAFORCE’ OR ‘AESCULUS’ OR ‘AESCULUS -HEEL’ OR ‘AESCUSAN’:tn OR ‘AESCUSWING’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 316/368   ‘AESCUVEN’:tn OR ‘AESCUVEN FORTE’:tn OR ‘ARUM TRIPHYLLUM PENTARKAN H’:tn OR ‘AVENOC’:tn  OR ‘BLUTGEFÄßTROPFEN N COSMOCHEMA’:tn OR ‘BORAGO COMP.’:tn OR ‘CERA/AESCULUS COMP.’:tn  OR ‘CESRAVEN’:tn OR ‘DIU VENOSTASIN ’:tn OR ‘ESCEVEN’:tn OR ‘FLEBOSTASIN R’:tn OR  ‘HEWEVEN’:tn OR ‘HIPOSEM’:tn OR ‘HIRUDO COMP.’:tn OR ‘HÄMORRHOIDAL -ZÄPFCHEN N  COSMOCHEMA’:tn OR ‘HÄMORRHOIDALZÄPFCHEN’:tn OR ‘INJECTIO ANTINEURALGICA S FIDES’:tn OR  ‘NORICAVEN’:tn OR ‘PFLÜGERPLEX ACIDUM HYDROFL. 236’:tn OR ‘PFLÜGERPLEX AESCULUS 127’:tn  OR ‘PFLÜGERPLEX COLLINSONIA 310 H’:tn OR ‘PLACENTA COMPOSITUM’:tn OR ‘SAPOVEN’:tn OR ‘SE  ROSSKASTANIE’:tn OR ‘SOLUM’:tn OR ‘TROPFEN GEGEN KRAMPFADERN UND HÄMORRHOIDEN’:tn OR  ‘VEINOFYTOL’:tn OR ‘VENAFORCE’:tn OR ‘VENALOT’:tn OR ‘VENASTAT’:tn OR ‘VENEN -KAPSELN  ROSSKASTANIE’:tn OR ‘FÜR ERWACHSENE’:tn OR ‘VENEN -TABLETTEN STADA’:tn OR ‘VENENTABS - RATIOPHARM’:tn OR ‘VENESCIN’:tn OR ‘VENITAN’:tn OR ‘VENO’:tn OR ‘VENO -BIOMO’:tn OR  ‘VENODURA’:tn OR ‘VENOPLANT’:tn OR ‘VENORUTON’:tn OR ‘VENOSELECT’:tn OR ‘VENOSIN’:tn OR  ‘VENOSIN ’:tn OR ‘VENOSTASIN’:tn OR ‘VENOSTASIN -CREME’:tn OR ‘VENALOT’:tn OR ‘VENASTAT’:tn  OR ‘VENEN’:tn OR ‘VENOPLANT’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   327.  Ipecacuanha   ‘IPECACUANHA LIQUID EXTRACT, STANDARDISED’ OR ‘IPECACUANHAE EXTRACTUM FLUIDUM  NORMATUM’ OR ‘IPECACUANHA, PREPARED’ OR ‘IPECACUANHAE PULVIS NORMATUS’ OR ‘TINTURA DE  URAGOGA IPECACUANHA’ OR ‘CONCENTRATED EXTRACT FOR TOLU IPECACUANHA SYRUP 1/10’ OR  ‘EXTRAIT CONCENTRÉ POUR SIROP DIPÉCACUANHA 1/10’ OR ‘CEPHAELIS IPECACUANHA’ OR ‘IPECA’  OR ‘PSYCHOTRIA IPECACUANHA’ OR ‘IPECACUANHA’ OR ‘APOMORPHINUM N OLIGOPLEX’ OR ‘ARALIS  HUSTENTABLETTEN’ OR ‘ASTHMA HM INJ.’:tn OR ‘BRONCHALIS -HEEL’:tn OR ‘BRONCHALIS -HEEL- TABLETTEN’:tn OR ‘BRONCHIKATT’:tn OR ‘BRONCHISELECT’:tn OR ‘BRONCHO’:tn OR ‘BRONCHO - KOMPLEX’:tn OR ‘BRONCHO -ORTHIM’:tn OR ‘BRONCHOBINI’:tn OR ‘BRONCHOPAS’:tn OR  ‘BRONCHOSYX’:tn OR ‘CHINA N OLIGOPLEX’:tn OR ‘COCCULUS PENTARKAN S’:tn OR ‘COUGH BALSAM  LINCTUS’:tn OR ‘COUGH SYRUP’:tn OR ‘DENISIA NR. 6’:tn OR ‘DUODENOHEEL’:tn OR ‘FENNINGS  LITTLE HEALERS OR JACKSONS LITTLE HEALERS’:tn OR ‘GASTRO’:tn OR ‘HANOTUSSAN’:tn OR ‘INFI - DROSERA -INJEKTION N’:tn OR ‘INFLUCID’:tn OR ‘INJECTIO ANTIASTHMATICA FIDES S’:tn OR  ‘INJECTIO BRONCHIALIS AMPULLEN’:tn OR ‘LÖWE KOMPLEX NR. 11 BRYONIA’:tn OR ‘MAGEN -DARM - ENTOXIN N’:tn OR ‘MONAPAX’:tn OR ‘MUCOSA COMPOSITUM’:tn OR ‘NAUSYN ’:tn OR ‘NISYLEN’:tn OR  ‘OVARIUM COMPOSITUM’:tn OR ‘PATES BAUDRY’:tn OR ‘PERTUDORON  1’:tn OR ‘PFLÜGERPLEX  GRINDELIA 100 H’:tn OR ‘PFLÜGERPLEX IPECACUANHA 300 H’:tn OR ‘PFLÜGERPLEX PERTUSSIS 320     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 317/368   H’:tn OR ‘PHYTOTUX’:tn OR ‘POTTERS COUGH REMOVER’:tn OR ‘PROCORDAL  VERTIGO’:tn OR  ‘PULMO’:tn OR ‘R8’:tn OR ‘SPASMO -ENTOXIN’:tn OR ‘STICTA PENTARKAN’:tn OR ‘STODAL’:tn OR  ‘STODALINE SANS SUCRE’:tn OR ‘TABLETTEN GEGEN MAGEN -DARM -BESCHWERDEN’:tn OR  ‘TARTEPHEDREEL’:tn OR ‘TRAVELEX’:tn OR ‘TUSSIFLORIN HOM’:tn OR ‘TUSSISANA ’:tn OR ‘TUSSO - ORTHIM’:tn OR ‘VIROPECT’:tn OR ‘VOMITUSHEEL’:tn OR ‘BRONCHALIS -HEEL’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   328.  Urtica   ‘URTICA DIOICA/URENS L. EXTRACT (UR 102)’ OR ‘LIELĀ NĀTRE’ OR ‘ORTIE DIOÏQUE’ OR ‘NETTLE’ OR  ‘URTICAE FOLIUM’ OR ‘URTICAE HERBAE RECENTIS SUCCUS (1:1)’ OR ‘URTICAE RADIX’ OR  ‘BRENNESSELWURZEL’ OR ‘URTICAE HERBA’ OR ‘ZIELE POKRZYWY’ OR ‘DRY EXTRACT FROM URTICAE  RADIX’ OR ‘URTICAE RADIX DRY EXTRACT’ OR ‘EXTRAKT (SOM TORRT EXTRAKT) FRÅN URTICA  DIOICA L. OCH/ELLER URTICA URENS L., ROT (BRÄNNÄSSLA/ETTERNÄSSLA)’ OR ‘EXTRAKTU Z  KOREŇA ŽIHĽAVY DVOJDOMEJ -RADICIS URTICAE DIOICAE’ OR ‘ESTRATTO SECCO IDROALCOOLICO  DI RADICI DI URTICA DIOICA’ OR ‘CSALÁNGYÖKÉR SZÁRAZKIVONAT’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS  BRENNNESSELWURZEL’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS BRENNNESSELWURZELN’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT  AUS URTICA DIOICA L., RADIX (BRENNESSELWURZELN)’ OR ‘URTICAE RADICIS EXTRACTUM SICCUM’  OR ‘URTICAE RADICIS EXTRACTUM SICCUM’ OR ‘URTICAE RADICIS EXTRACTUM FLUIDUM (1:1;  ETANOL 70º)’ OR ‘ALK -PRICK N 356 BRENNESSEL’ OR ‘ALLIOFILL’ OR ‘ANAEMODORON’ OR  ‘ANAEMODORON RH D2’ OR ‘BAZOTON UNO’ OR ‘BERBERIS E FRUCTIBUS COMP.’ OR ‘BERBERIS  PENTARKAN H’ OR ‘BERBERIS, PLANTA TOTA / URTICA URENS’ OR ‘BERBERIS/PROSTATA COMP.’ OR  ‘BERBERIS/SEPIA COMP.’ OR ‘BERBERIS/URTICA URENS’ OR ‘BERBERIS/UTERUS COMP.’ OR ‘BIRKEN  MIT ARNIKA’ OR ‘BIRKEN OHNE ARNIKA’ OR ‘BRANDESSENZ’:tn OR ‘BRENNNESSEL’:tn OR  ‘BRENNNESSELBLÄTTER’:tn OR ‘BRENNNESSELBLÄTTER TEE’:tn OR ‘CHELIDONIUM COMP.’:tn OR  ‘COMBUDORON’:tn OR ‘CUTIS COMPOSITUM N’:tn OR ‘FERRUM SILICICUM COMP.’:tn OR ‘FERRUM  USTUM COMP.’:tn OR ‘HEWEURAT’:tn OR ‘IMMUNOFORT’:tn OR ‘KNEIPP  BRENNNESSEL TEE’:tn OR  ‘LENISAN’:tn OR ‘LIŚĆ POKRZYWY’:tn OR ‘MENODORON’:tn OR ‘MILCHBILDUNGSTROPFEN’:tn OR  ‘NESSEL HAL ALLERGY’:tn OR ‘POKRZYWA FIX’:tn OR ‘PRICK -TESTLÖSUNG BRENNNESSEL’:tn OR  ‘PRICK -TESTLÖSUNG KRÄUTER’:tn OR ‘PRO -SABONA ’:tn OR ‘PROSTA’:tn OR ‘PROSTAFORTON UNO’:tn  OR ‘PROSTAHERB N’:tn OR ‘PROSTALIZYNA’:tn OR ‘PROSTAMED’:tn OR ‘PROSTATA TEE’:tn OR  ‘PROSTATONIN’:tn OR ‘PROVOKATIONS -TESTLÖSUNG BRENNESSEL’:tn OR ‘PROVOKATIONS - TESTLÖSUNG KRÄUTER’:tn OR ‘RHUS TOXICODENDRON PENTARKAN’:tn OR ‘ROSMARINUS/PRUNUS  COMP.’:tn OR ‘ROZTWORY DO TESTÓW PROWOKACYJNYCH PLATAN CHWASTY’:tn OR ‘ROZTWORY DO     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 318/368   TESTÓW PROWOKACYJNYCH POKRZYWA’:tn OR ‘SONNENBRANDSPRAY’:tn OR ‘TROPFEN GEGEN  INSEKTENSTICHE’:tn OR ‘UROL PROS’:tn OR ‘UROLOGICAE PLANTA’:tn OR ‘URTICA’:tn OR ‘URTIX’:tn  OR ‘VAGOSAN’:tn OR ‘WUND - UND BRANDGEL’:tn OR ‘IMMUNOFORT’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   329.  Ginseng   ‘EXTRACT FROM DEVILS BUSH (1 :11,3) EXTRACTION AGENT: LIQUEUR WINE’ OR ‘AUSZUG AUS  TAIGAWURZEL (1:11,3) AUSZUGSMITTEL: LIKÖRWEIN’ OR ‘GINSENGWURZEL’ OR ‘THICK EXTRACT OF  GINSENG ROOT (1,7 - 2,9 : 1), EXTRACTING AGENT: ETHANOL 70 % (V/V)’ OR ‘DICKEXTRAKT AUS  GINSENG WURZEL (1,7 - 2,9 : 1); AUSZUGSMITTEL ETHANOL 70 % (V/V)’ OR ‘TAIGAWURZEL - PULVER’ OR ‘DRY EXTRACT FROM GINSENG ROOT (3 -5:1): ETHANOL 36 % (V/V)’ OR  ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS GINSENGWURZEL (3 -5:1); AUSZUGSMITTEL: ETHANOL 36% (V/V)’ OR ‘DRY  EXTRACT FROM GINSENG ROOT (6 -7:1): ETHANOL 30 % (V/V)’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS  GINSENGWURZEL (6 -7:1) AUSZUGSMITTEL ETHANOL 30% (M/M)’ OR ‘DRY EXTRACT FROM GINSENG  ROOT (3 -7:1): ETHANOL 40 % (V/V)’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS GINSENGWURZELN (3 -7:1)  (AUSZUGSMITTEL: ETHANOL VOL. -40%)’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS GINSENGWURZEL (3 -7:1)  AUSZUGSMITTEL: ETHANOL 40% VOL.’ OR ‘FLUID EXTRACT OF GINSENG ROOTS (1:1): ETHANOL  34% (V/V)’ OR ‘FLUIDEXTRAKT AUS GINSENGWURZELN (1:1), AUSZUGSMITTEL: ETHANOL 34 %  (V/V)’ OR ‘PANAX GINSENG ROOT’ OR ‘KOREAN GINSENG ROOT’ OR ‘EXTRACTUM GINSENG’ OR  ‘GINSENG’ OR ‘ASIAN GINSENG’ OR ‘FLÜSSIGEXTRAKT AUS ELEUTHEROCOCCUS -SENTICOSUS - WURZELN (1:1, AUSZUGSMITTEL ETHANOL 40 % V/V)’ OR ‘STANDARDIZED GINSENG EXTRACT G115’  OR ‘PANAX GINSENG C.A. MEYER RADIX EXTRAKT (G115)’ OR ‘SUCHÝ ŽENŠENOVÝ EXTRAKT  ŠTANDARDIZOVANÝ’ OR ‘EXTRACT STANDARDIZAT DE PANAX GINSENG’ OR ‘PANAX GINSENG C.A.  MEYER RADIX EKSTRAKT’ OR ‘STANDARDIZÁLT GINSZENG KIVONAT’ OR ‘PANAX GINSENG C.A.  MEYER EXTRACT. (G115)’ OR ‘PANAX GINSENG RAD. EXTR. SPIR. SICC’ OR ‘EXTRACTO DE GINSENG  G 115 ESTANDARIZADO’ OR ‘STANDARDIZED HIGHLY CONCENTRATED GINSENG EXTRACT G 115’ OR  ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS GINSENGWURZEL’ OR ‘STANDARDISIERTER PANAX -GINSENG -EXTRAKT G115’  OR ‘PANAX GINSENG C. A. MEYER, RADIX TØREKSTRAKT’ OR ‘SIBERIAN GINSENG ROOT’ OR  ‘ELEUTHEROCOCCI RADIX’ OR ‘SIBERIAN GINSENG ROOT EXTRACT’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS  TAIGAWURZELN’ OR ‘PANAX GINSENG RADICIS EXTRACTUM SICCUM’ OR ‘PANAX GINSENG ROT  EXTRAKT’ OR ‘SUHI EKSTRAKT KORENINE PRAVEGA GINSENGA’ OR ‘SUCHÝ ŽEN -ŠENOVÝ EXTRAKT’  OR ‘SUCHÝ EXTRAKT ZO ŽEŇŠENOVÉHO KOREŇA’ OR ‘EXTRACT USCAT DE RĂDĂCINĂ DE PANAX  GINSENG’ OR ‘PANAX GINSENG, EXTRACTO DE RAÍZ’ OR ‘WYCIĄG SUCHY Z KORZENIA RZEŃ SZENIA’     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 319/368   OR ‘PANAX GINSENGROTEKSTRAKT, TØRRET’ OR ‘DROOG EXTRACT VAN DE PANAX GINSENG - WORTEL’ OR ‘PANAX GINSENG ESTRATT XOTT MILL -GĦERUQ’ OR ‘ŽEŅŠEŅA SAKŅU SAUSAIS  EKSTRAKTS’ OR ‘KININIŲ ŽENŠENIŲ ŠAKNŲ SAUSASIS EKSTRAKTAS’ OR ‘ESTRATTO SECCO DI  RADICE DI PANAX GINSENG’ OR ‘GINZENG GYÖKÉR SZÁRAZ KIVONATA’ OR ‘EXTRAIT SEC DE RACINE  DE GINSENG’ OR ‘GINSENGJUURI, KUIVAUUTE (GINSENGROT, TORRT EXTRAKT)’ OR ‘ŽENŠENNI  JUURE KUIVEKSTRAKT’ OR ‘PANAX GINSENG RAÍZ EXTRACTO SECO’ OR ‘PANAX GINSENG ΞΗΡΌ  ΕΚΧΎΛΙΣΜΑ ΡΊΖΑΣ’ OR ‘PANAX GINSENG ROD, TØREKSTRAKT’ OR ‘PANAX GINSENG RADICIS  EXTRACTUM SICCUM’ OR ‘DRY EXTRACT FROM RED (STEAM TREATED) GINSENG ROOT (2.2 - 3.8 :1 );  EXTRACTION MEDIUM ETHANOL 60% (V/V)’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS ROTER  (WASSERDAMPFBEHANDELTER) GINSENGWURZEL (2.2 – 3.8 : 1); DAS AUSZUGSMITTEL IST  ETHANOL 60%(V/V)’ OR ‘DRY EXTRACT FROM RED (STEAM TREATED) GINSENG ROOT (3 - 4 :1 );  EXTRACTION MEDIUM ETHANOL 60% (V/V)’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS ROTER  (WASSERDAMPFBEHANDELTER) GINSENGWURZEL (3 – 4 : 1); DAS AUSZUGSMITTEL IST ETHANOL  60%(V/V)’ OR ‘G115 PANAX GINSENG EXTRACT [DRY EXTRACT ETHANOLIC 40%: 1.3 – 3:1]’ OR  ‘GINSENG -EXTRAKT G115 (TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS GINSENGWURZEL (GINSENG RADIX VON PANAX  GINSENG C.A. MEYER) STANDARDISIERT AUF 4% GINSENOIDE, VERHÄLTNIS AUSGANGSDROGE ZU  EXTRAKT 3 -7:1, EXTRAKTIONSMITTEL ETHANOL/WASSER 40:60)’ OR ‘G115 PANAX GINSENG  EXTRACT DRY EXTRACT ETHANOLIC 40%:1.3 -3:1’ OR ‘AUSZUG AUS GINSENGWURZELN (1:11,0 -13,6)  AUSZUGSMITTEL LIKÖRWEIN’ OR ‘PANAX GINSENG TM’ OR ‘PANAX GINSENG Ø’ OR  ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS TAIGAWURZEL (15 -18:1)’ OR ‘DRY EXTRACT FROM GINSENG ROOT (2.1 - 3.9  : 1); EXTRACTION MEDIUM ETHANOL 40 % (V/V)’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS GINSENGWURZEL (2.1  - 3.9 : 1); AUSZUGSMITTEL IST ETHANOL 40% (V/V)’ OR ‘ACIDUM PHOSPHORICUM N OLIGOPLEX’ OR  ‘ASTIL’:tn OR ‘BIO -STAR’:tn OR ‘ELEU CURARINA’:tn OR ‘ELEU -KOKK DRAGÉES’:tn OR  ‘ELEUTHEROCOCCUS’:tn OR ‘GINSANA’:tn OR ‘GINSENG’:tn OR ‘GINSENGFIT -KAPSELN’:tn OR  ‘GINSOR’:tn OR ‘HERBAGINSAN POWER GINSENG’:tn OR ‘INVERMA ELEUTHEROKOKK ZUCKER’:tn OR  ‘KRRG KAPSELN’:tn OR ‘KRRG PULVEREXTRAKT KAPSELN’:tn OR ‘KRRG TABLETTEN’:tn OR ‘MANUIA’:tn  OR ‘PFLÜGERPLEX CYCLAMEN 112’:tn OR ‘PFLÜGERPLEX SELENIUM 184 H’:tn OR ‘RG EXTRAKT  HARTKAPSELN’:tn OR ‘ROTER IMPERIAL GINSENG’:tn OR ‘SAM GINSENG’:tn OR ‘SAM GINSENG  WURZELPULVER’:tn OR ‘SCHWÖROCOR’:tn OR ‘TONDINEL TABLETTEN’:tn OR ‘TONIMAX’:tn OR  ‘VC15F’:tn OR ‘ŽEN ŠEN GINSENG’:tn OR ‘BAKUMONDOTO’:tn OR ‘CHOTOSAN’:tn OR  ‘DAIKENCHUTO’:tn OR ‘GINSANA’:tn OR ‘GINSANA G115’:tn OR ‘JINSOIN’:tn OR ‘JUZENTAIHOTO’:tn  OR ‘RIKKUNSHITO’:tn OR ‘UNKEITO’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 320/368   330.  Hedera   ‘IVY LEAVES DRY EXTRACT (5 -7.5:1), EXTRACTIVE AGENT: ETHANOL 30% (W/W)’ OR  ‘EFEUBLÄTTERTROCKENEXTRAKT (VERHÄLTNIS DROGE ZU EXTRAKT 5 -7,5:1) AUSZUGSMITTEL:  ETHANOL 30% (M/M)’ OR ‘EFEUBLÄTTERTROCKENEXTRAKT (DEV 5 -7,5:1) AUSZUGSMITTEL: ETHANOL  30 % (M/M)’ OR ‘SUHI EKSTRAKT BRŠLJANOVOG LISTA (5 -7,5 : 1); EKSTRAKCIJSKO OTAPALO:  ETANOL 30 % (M/M)’ OR ‘EFEUBLÄTTERTROCKENEXTRAKT (5 -7.5:1), AUSZUGSMITTEL: ETHANOL  30% (M/M)’ OR ‘HOJAS DE HEDERA HELIX L.’ OR ‘HEDERA HELIX’ OR ‘IVY LEAVES, DRY EXTRACT’ OR  ‘BOROSTYÁNLEVÉL SZÁRAZ KIVONATA’ OR ‘SUHI EKSTRAKT BRŠLJANOVOG LISTA’ OR ‘DRIED IVY  LEAF EXTRACT’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS EFEUBLÄTTERN’ OR ‘EFEUBLÄTTER -TROCKENEXTRAKT’ OR  ‘HEDERAE HELICIS FOLIUM’ OR ‘DRY EXTRACT OF IVY LEAVES (6 -7:1) NATIVE’ OR ‘IVY LEAF DRY  EXTRACT (DER 4 -8:1)’ OR ‘DRY EXTRACT OF HEDERA LEAVES [3 - 6 : 1]’ OR ‘HEDERAE HELICIS FOLII  EXTRACTUM SICCUM’ OR ‘WYCIĄG SUCHY Z LIŚCI BLUSZCZU’ OR ‘IVY LEAF DRY EXTRACT (DER 6 - 7:1) PREPARATION’ OR ‘IVY LEAVES, DRY EXTRACT; EXTRACTION MEDIUM ETHANOL 30% (M/M)’ OR  ‘EFEUBLÄTTER -TROCKENEXTRAKT DAC (5 -8:1); AUSZUGSMITTEL ETHANOL 30 % (M/M)’ OR  ‘HEDERAE HELICIS FOL. SPIR. EXTRACTUM SICCUM (6 - 7 : 1), ETHANOL 40% (M/M)’ OR ‘IVY LEAF  DRY EXTRACT (ETHANOL 40% V/V), DER NATIVE 6 -7:1’ OR ‘EFEUBLÄTTER -TROCKENEXTRAKT  (ETHANOL 40% V/V), DEV 6 -7:1’ OR ‘ACTIVOX EFEU’ OR ‘ACTIVOX LIERRE’ OR ‘ALPINAMED  HUSTENLÖSER’ OR ‘ARISMIK’ OR ‘ARKOTUX’ OR ‘ARKOVOX’ OR ‘BRONCHILIN’ OR ‘BRONCHOFIT EFEU - HUSTENSAFT’ OR ‘BRONCHOSTAD’:tn OR ‘BRONCHOVERDE HUSTENLOESER’:tn OR ‘BRONCHOVERDE  HUSTENLÖSER TRINKGRANULAT’:tn OR ‘BRONCHOVERDE HUSTENLÖSER TROPFEN’:tn OR  ‘BRONCHOVERDE HUSTENSAFT’:tn OR ‘DR. THEISS HUSTENSAFT’:tn OR ‘DROSITHYM EFEU MONO  1,98G’:tn OR ‘DROSITHYM SAFT’:tn OR ‘EFEU 1 A PHARMA’:tn OR ‘EFEU HUSTENSIRUP’:tn OR ‘EFEU  PFLEGER’:tn OR ‘EFEU RATIOPHARM’:tn OR ‘EFEUSAFT HYSAN’:tn OR ‘EFEX AKUT’:tn OR ‘ESBERI - EFEU HUSTENSAFT’:tn OR ‘HEDERAE HELICIS FOL. SPIR. EXTRACTUM SICCUM (6 - 7 : 1), ETHANOL  40% (M/M) RATIOPHARM’:tn OR ‘HEDERAN’:tn OR ‘HEDERASAL ’:tn OR ‘HEDEROIN’:tn OR  ‘HELIPICO’:tn OR ‘HELITUSPAN’:tn OR ‘HELIXIR’:tn OR ‘HERBION’:tn OR ‘HERBION IVY’:tn OR  ‘HERBION LUUDEROHI SIIRUP’:tn OR ‘HERBION NA KASZEL MOKRY’:tn OR ‘HERBION NA VLHKÝ  KAŠEL’:tn OR ‘HEWETHYREON’:tn OR ‘LIST NAVADNEGA BRŠLJANA KRKA’:tn OR ‘LUUF  BOROSTYÁN’:tn OR ‘LUUF EFEU’:tn OR ‘LUUF -EFEU FÜR KINDER’:tn OR ‘MUCOPLANT  BREČTANOM’:tn  OR ‘MUCOPLANT BŘEČŤANOVÝ’:tn OR ‘MUCOPLANT DR. THEISS BOROSTYÁN KÖHÖGÉS ELLENI  SZIRUP’:tn OR ‘MUCOPLANT HUSTENSAFT’:tn OR ‘MUCOPLANT SIRUP’:tn OR ‘PHARMATEK’:tn OR  ‘PIWU’:tn OR ‘PROSPAN’:tn OR ‘PROSPANTUS’:tn OR ‘PROSPAN ’:tn OR ‘SINUC’:tn OR ‘TUMA’:tn OR  ‘TUSPAN’:tn OR ‘VITA EFEU BRAUSETABLETTEN’:tn OR ‘ABRILAR’:tn OR ‘HEDELIX’:tn OR ‘HEDERIX’:tn  OR ‘PRIVATOS’:tn OR ‘PROSPAN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 321/368   OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   331.  Cynara   ‘CYNARINE’ OR ‘CYNARINUM’ OR ‘CYNARINE’ OR ‘CINARINA’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS  ARTISCHOCKENBLÄTTERN (4 -6:1); AUSZUGSMITTEL: WASSER’ OR ‘WÄSSRIGER EXTRAKT AUS  ARTISCHOCKENBLÄTTER’ OR ‘SOFT EXTRACT OF ARTICHOKE’ OR ‘ARTICHOKE’ OR ‘CYNARA  SCOLYMUS’ OR ‘(CYNARAE FOLIUM EXTRACTUM SICCUM) (25 -35:1)’ OR ‘(CYNARAE FOLII EXTRACTUM  SICCUM) (25 -35:1)’ OR ‘CYNARAE HERBAE EXTRACTUM SICCUM’ OR ‘WYCIĄG SUCHY Z ZIELA  KARCZOCHA’ OR ‘ARTISCHOCKENBLAETTER -TROCKENEXTRACT’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS  ARTISCHOCKENBLÄTTERN’ OR ‘ARTISCHOCKENBLÄTTER -TROCKENEXTRAKT’ OR ‘ARTICHAUT  (EXTRAIT AQUEUX SEC SUR MALTODEXTRINE DE FEUILLES)’ OR ‘CYNARAE FOLII EXTRACTUM  SICCUM’ OR ‘WYCIĄG SUCHY Z LIŚCI KARCZOCHA’ OR ‘DRY EXTRACT OF ARTICHOKE LEAVES’ OR  ‘CYNARAE FOLIUM EXTRACTUM SICCUM (5.8 - 7.5 : 1), WATER’ OR ‘DRY EXTRACT FROM FRESH  ARTICHOKE LEAVES’ OR ‘ANGHIROL’:tn OR ‘ARISTOCHOL GALLEKAPSELN’:tn OR ‘ARTICSÓKA  DRAZSÉ’:tn OR ‘BALCOFIT’:tn OR ‘CANOL’:tn OR ‘CEFACYNAR’:tn OR ‘CHOLAGOGUM’:tn OR  ‘CHOPHYTOL’:tn OR ‘CIRKUHEP’:tn OR ‘CYNACAPS ARTISCHOCKEN -KAPSELN’:tn OR ‘CYNACUR’:tn OR  ‘CYNALIP ’:tn OR ‘CYNAREX’:tn OR ‘CYNARIX’:tn OR ‘CYNARIX ’:tn OR ‘CYNOSAN’:tn OR  ‘DIGESTIOL’:tn OR ‘GALLE’:tn OR ‘GALLEXIER KRÄUTERBITTER’:tn OR ‘GAMMA N’:tn OR ‘HEBUCOL’:tn  OR ‘HEPACYNAR’:tn OR ‘HEPAGALLIN N’:tn OR ‘HEPANEPHROL’:tn OR ‘HEPAR -POS’:tn OR ‘HEPAR - SL’:tn OR ‘HEPAR -SL FORTE’:tn OR ‘HEPARSTAD’:tn OR ‘KLOSTERFRAU GASTROBIN ARTISCHOCKE’:tn  OR ‘RAPHAMAX FORTE’:tn OR ‘THEONIKOL’:tn OR ‘VALVERDE VERDAUUNG’:tn OR ‘ZIMEMA’:tn OR  ‘CHOPHYTOL’:tn OR ‘HEPA -S’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   332.  Atropa   ‘BELLADONNA LEAF DRY EXTRACT, STANDARDISED’ OR ‘BELLADONNAE FOLII EXTRACTUM SICCUM  NORMATUM’ OR ‘BELLADONE (FEUILLE DE), EXTRAIT SEC TITRÉ DE’ OR ‘ATROPA BELLADONNA’ OR  ‘DEADLY NIGHTSHADE’ OR ‘BELLADONNA’ OR ‘EXTRACTO DE BELLADONA’ OR ‘VILKOGAS TINKTŪRA’  OR ‘ATROPA BELLADONA ROOT SOFT EXTRACT 4:1, EXTRACTION SOLVENT ETHANOL 70% V/V’ OR  ‘BELLADONNAE RADICIS EXTRACTUM SPISSUM’ OR ‘WYCIĄG GĘSTY Z KORZENIA POKRZYKU’ OR  ‘ACONITUM COMP.’ OR ‘ACONITUM PENTARKAN’ OR ‘ANGIPAX’ OR ‘ANTISPASMINA COLICA’ OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 322/368   ‘ANTISPASMINA COLICA FORTE’ OR ‘APIS BELLADONNA’ OR ‘APIS/BELLADONNA CUM MERCURIO’ OR  ‘AUGENTROPFEN’ OR ‘AURUM / BELLADONNA COMP.’ OR ‘AURUM/BELLADONNA COMP.’ OR  ‘BELLADONA ORRAVAN’ OR ‘BELLADONNA’ OR ‘BERBERIS/APIS COMP.’ OR ‘BIOSPASMIL’ OR  ‘BRONCHO - ENTOXIN N’ OR ‘BRYONIA / SPONGIA COMP.’ OR ‘BRYONIA COMP.’ OR ‘CAUSTICUM  PENTARKAN H’ OR ‘CONTRAINFECT’:tn OR ‘CORYZALIA’:tn OR ‘ENUROPLANT N’:tn OR ‘ERYSIDORON  1’:tn OR ‘ERYSIDORON NR.1’:tn OR ‘FEBRO -CYL L’:tn OR ‘GASTRI -LOGES N’:tn OR ‘GASTRITIS’:tn OR  ‘GASTRO PASC’:tn OR ‘GELSEMIUM / BRYONIA COMP.’:tn OR ‘GLOBULI GEGEN FIEBER UND GRIPPE  NR. 2’:tn OR ‘GLOBULI GEGEN HALSWEH’:tn OR ‘HUSTEEL’:tn OR ‘KAPSIPLAST’:tn OR ‘KEFALGIN’:tn  OR ‘LACHESIS COMP.’:tn OR ‘MAGEN -KOMPLEX L’:tn OR ‘PASCORENAL’:tn OR  ‘PERIODONTIUM/SILICEA COMP.’:tn OR ‘PFLÜGERPLEX BELLADONNA 182’:tn OR ‘PFLÜGERPLEX  FRAXINUS 339 H’:tn OR ‘PHYTOTUX COMPLEXE’:tn OR ‘R1’:tn OR ‘R9’:tn OR ‘RANUNCULUS  PENTARKAN D’:tn OR ‘SAINTBOIS’:tn OR ‘SILICEA COMP.’:tn OR ‘SINUSPAX’:tn OR ‘SOLIDAGO’:tn OR  ‘SOLIDAGO N OLIGOPLEX’:tn OR ‘SPASMOFIDES S’:tn OR ‘SPASTICOL’:tn OR ‘SPIGELON’:tn OR  ‘SULFUR PENTARKAN H’:tn OR ‘TABLETTEN GEGEN ANGINA’:tn OR ‘TANAGEL DURBÁN’:tn OR  ‘THYREOIDEA COMP.’:tn OR ‘TROPFEN GEGEN KOPFWEH’:tn OR ‘TROPFEN GEGEN  PERIODENBESCHWERDEN’:tn OR ‘ULCO -CYL L’:tn OR ‘VISCUM COMP.’:tn OR ‘VOCARA’:tn OR ‘YERBA  SANTA S OLIGOPLEX’:tn OR ‘ZINNOBER COMP’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   333.  Linum   ‘LINI OLEUM VIRGINALE’ OR ‘LINSEED’ OR ‘LINUM USITATISSIMUM SEED’ OR ‘LINI SEMEN’ OR ‘FLAX  SEED’ OR ‘LINŲ SĖKLOS’ OR ‘SEMILLA DE LINO’ OR ‘LINUM USITATISSIMUM L. SEMEN’ OR ‘LINI  OLEUM VIRGINALE 3:1’ OR ‘CONCHAE COMP.’:tn OR ‘FITOLIZYN’:tn OR ‘FITOLIZYNA’:tn OR  ‘LINOMAG’:tn OR ‘LINŲ SĖKLOS ŠVF’:tn OR ‘PFLÜGERPLEX SINAPIS 107’:tn OR ‘SANTALUM ALBUM N  OLIGOPLEX’:tn OR ‘SENEGA PENTARKAN S’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 323/368   'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   334.  Betula   ‘AUSZUG (10:1,3) AUS BETULA (FOLIUM), JUNIPERI PSEUDO -FRUCTUS (5:1,5) (AUSZUGSMITTEL:  TRINKWASSER, SACCHAROSE, HONIG, CITRONENSÄURE -MONOHYDRAT)’ OR ‘BETULAE FOLIUM’ OR  ‘BETULAE FOLIUM’ OR ‘BOULEAU (FEUILLE DE)’ OR ‘CARBO BETULAE’ OR ‘PYŁEK BRZOZY’ OR  ‘BERKENPOLLEN’ OR ‘BIRKENPOLLEN’ OR ‘BETULA’ OR ‘BIRCH’ OR ‘BRZOZA BIAŁA’ OR ‘BERK’ OR  ‘BETULLA’ OR ‘BOULEAU’ OR ‘ABEDUL’ OR ‘BIRKE’ OR ‘EXTRAKT AUS BIRKENPOLLEN’ OR ‘PRESSED  JUICE FROM FRESH BIRCH LEAVES (1 : 2.05 – 2.40)’ OR ‘PRESS -SAFT AUS FRISCHEN  BIRKENBLÄTTERN (1 : 2,05 – 2,40)’ OR ‘SWEET BIRCH OIL’ OR ‘SWEET BRICH OIL’ OR ‘BETULAE  FOLII EXTRACTUM AQUOSUM SICCUM’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS BIRKENBLÄTTERN (4 -8:1)’ OR ‘ALK  108 BETULA VERRUCOSA (RØD EL)’ OR ‘ALK 108 BETULA VERRUCOSA (VORTEBIRK)’ OR ‘ALK -DEPOT  SQ 108 BIRKE’ OR ‘ALK -DEPOT SQ 197 FRÜHBLÜHERMISCHUNG’ OR ‘ALK -LYOPHILISIERT SQ 108  BIRKE’ OR ‘ALK -PRICK SQ 108 BIRKE’ OR ‘ALK7 BIRKE’ OR ‘ALK7 FRÜHBLÜHERMISCHUNG’ OR  ‘ALLERGOVIT BIRKE’ OR ‘ALLERGOVIT BIRKE + ERLE + HASEL’ OR ‘ALLERGOVIT GRAESER + BIRKE +  ROGGEN’ OR ‘ALLERGOVIT GRAESER/GETREIDE + BIRKE’ OR ‘ALUTARD SQ’ OR ‘AQUAGEN SQ 108  KOIVU (BETULA VERRUCOSA) SIITEPÖLYT’ OR ‘AQUAGEN SQ BJÖRK’ OR ‘BELLADONNA / BETULA /  FORMICA’ OR ‘BERBERIS COMPLEXE NR 83’ OR ‘BERBERIS COMPLEXE N°83’ OR  ‘BETULA/MANDRAGORA COMP.’ OR ‘BIRKE’:tn OR ‘BIRKENBLÄTTER’:tn OR ‘BIRKENBLÄTTER  DURCHSPÜLUNGS’:tn OR ‘BIRKENBLÄTTER TEE’:tn OR ‘CARTILAGO COMP.’:tn OR  ‘CARTILAGO/MANDRAGORA COMP.’:tn OR ‘CATALET D’:tn OR ‘DIABETOFORT’:tn OR ‘ERYSIDORON  2’:tn OR ‘FRÜHBLÜHENDE BÄUME MISCHUNG I HAL ALLERGY’:tn OR ‘GENURAT’:tn OR ‘HAL ALLERGY  PRICK TEST POLLEN’:tn OR ‘HAL ALLERGY PROVO TEST’:tn OR ‘HARNTEE STEINER’:tn OR  ‘NATURREINER HEILPFLANZENSAFT BIRKE’:tn OR ‘NIERENTONIKUM’:tn OR ‘PANGRAMIN SLIT  MONODOSE’:tn OR ‘PEROSALL D’:tn OR ‘PRICK -TESTLÖSUNG BIRKE’:tn OR ‘PRICK -TESTLÖSUNG  BÄUME II/MITTELBLÜHER’:tn OR ‘PRIKTESTOPLOSSING’:tn OR ‘PROVOKATIONS -TESTLÖSUNG  BIRKE’:tn OR ‘PROVOKATIONS -TESTLÖSUNG BÄUME/MITTELBLÜHER’:tn OR ‘PROVOKATIONSTEST’:tn  OR ‘PURETHAL BIRKE’:tn OR ‘PURETHAL  POJEDYNCZE’:tn OR ‘ROZTWORY DO TESTÓW  PROWOKACYJNYCH BRZOZA BIAŁA’:tn OR ‘ROZTWORY DO TESTÓW PROWOKACYJNYCH PLATAN  DRZEWA II’:tn OR ‘SECALE/BLEIGLANZ COMP.’:tn OR ‘SECALE/RETINA COMP.’:tn OR ‘SOLUPRICK  SQ’:tn OR ‘STALORAL 300’:tn OR ‘STALORAL BIRKE’:tn OR ‘STALORAL BIRKE/ERLE/HASEL’:tn OR  ‘URARTHONE’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR  'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 324/368   immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   335.  Capsicum   ‘CAPSICUM’ OR ‘OLEORESIN CAPSICUM’ OR ‘OLÈORESINE DE CAPSICUM’ OR ‘OLEORRESINA DE  CÁPSICO’ OR ‘CAPSICUM TINCTURE  BPC’ OR ‘CAPSICUM FRUIT SOFT EXTRACT’ OR ‘ARAFARMADOL’  OR ‘BAUME CUROMAL’ OR ‘BAUME SAINT BERNARD’ OR ‘BISMUTUM PENTARKAN’ OR ‘BRONCHIAL  BALSAM’ OR ‘BUTTERCUP SYRUP’ OR ‘CAPSAMOL DOLOR’ OR ‘CAPSICUM COMP.’ OR ‘CAPSIDOL’:tn OR  ‘DULBALM’:tn OR ‘FIERY JACK’:tn OR ‘INCENA’:tn OR ‘KILKOF’:tn OR ‘MUSCUFORT’:tn OR ‘PRICK - TESTLÖSUNG PAPRIKA’:tn OR ‘SALONPAS HOT’:tn OR ‘SANDERSONS THROAT SPECIFIC MIXTURE’:tn  OR ‘SOR VIRGINIA’:tn OR ‘STILÈNE’:tn OR ‘SULFUR COMP. -HEEL’:tn OR ‘TRAUMA -SALBE WÄRMEND  MAYRHOFER’:tn OR ‘SALONPAS -HOT’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   336.  Hamamelis   ‘HAMAMELIS LEAF’ OR ‘HAMAMELIDIS FOLIUM’ OR ‘HAMAMÉLIS (FEUILLE D)’ OR ‘EXTRAIT FLUIDE  DHAMAMÉLIS’ OR ‘LIQUID EXTRACT WITCH HAZEL’ OR ‘HAMEMELIS WATER’ OR ‘AQUA HAMAMELIDIS’  OR ‘TEINTURE DHAMAMÉLIS 1/10’ OR ‘FLUIDEXTRAKT AUS HAMAMELISBLÄTTERN (1:2),  AUSZUGSMITTEL: ETHANOL 60% (V/V)’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS HAMAMELISRINDE (5,0 -7,7:1)’  OR ‘DISTILLED HAMAMELIS WATER’ OR ‘DISTILLED WITCH HAZEL’ OR ‘DISTILLED WATER OF  HAMAMELIS’ OR ‘ACQUA DISTILLATA DI HAMAMELIS’ OR ‘DESTILLAT AUS FRISCHEN  HAMAMELISBLÄTTERN UND -ZWEIGEN’ OR ‘AUSZUG AUS HAMAMELISBLÄTTERN’ OR ‘EXTRAIT  HYDROALCOOLIQUE FLUIDE DHAMAMÉLIS’ OR ‘ABROPERNOL N’ OR ‘ACHILLEA COMP’ OR ‘AESCULUS’  OR ‘CLIMAXOL’:tn OR ‘CRUROHEEL S’:tn OR ‘DISTILLED WITCH HAZEL’:tn OR ‘FAKTU’:tn OR ‘FRAUEN - KOMPLEX L’:tn OR ‘HAENAL  FACT SALBE’:tn OR ‘HAENAL  HAMAMELIS ZÄPFCHEN’:tn OR  ‘HAMAMELIS’:tn OR ‘HAMAMELIS -CREME -HEEL S’:tn OR ‘HAMAMELIS -SALBE’:tn OR ‘HAMAPUR’:tn OR  ‘HAMEDERM’:tn OR ‘HAMETUM’:tn OR ‘JOUVENCE DE LABBE SOURY’:tn OR ‘JOUVENCE DE LABBÉ  SOURY’:tn OR ‘JOUVENCE DE LABBÉ SOURY,’:tn OR ‘OPTONE’:tn OR ‘OPTREX’:tn OR ‘PAEONIA COMP. -    European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 325/368   HEEL’:tn OR ‘PASCOVENOL’:tn OR ‘PFLÜGERPLEX PLATINUM 338 H’:tn OR ‘PHYTOMELIS’:tn OR  ‘POSTERINE’:tn OR ‘R13’:tn OR ‘R28’:tn OR ‘REPROVEN’:tn OR ‘WITCH HAZEL’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   337.  Harpagophytum   ‘DEVILS CLAW ROOT’ OR ‘HARPAGOPHYTI RADIX’ OR ‘HARPAGOPHYTON (RACINE D)’ OR ‘EKSTRAKT  AF HARPAGOPHYTUM’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS TEUFELSKRALLENWURZEL (1,5 -2,0:1),  AUSZUGSMITTEL: ETHANOL 40 % (V/V)’ OR ‘TEUFELSKRALLENWURZEL’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS  TEUFELSKRALLENWURZEL (4,4 -5,0:1)’ OR ‘HARPAGOPHYTUM’ OR ‘DEVILS CLAW’ OR ‘HARPAGOPHYTI  EXTRACTUM SICCUM’ OR ‘DEVILS CLAW DRY EXTRACT (1,5 -2,5:1)’ OR ‘ALLYNAT’ OR ‘ARTHRO M’ OR  ‘ARTHROTABS’ OR ‘ATROSAN’ OR ‘BOMARTHROS’ OR ‘DEFENCID TEUFELSKRALLE EXTRAKT - TABLETTEN’ OR ‘DUIVELSKLAUW’:tn OR ‘FLEXI -LOGES’:tn OR ‘GLOBULI GEGEN  GELENKSCHMERZEN’:tn OR ‘HARPAGOPHYTUM’:tn OR ‘HARPASOR’:tn OR ‘HARPAVIT’:tn OR  ‘JOINTEEZE’:tn OR ‘JUCURBA’:tn OR ‘JUCURBA FORTE’:tn OR ‘NORMOREUM’:tn OR ‘PARGO’:tn OR  ‘PASCOE -AGIL’:tn OR ‘RHEUMA -SERN’:tn OR ‘RIVOLTAN’:tn OR ‘SEDERGINE C’:tn OR ‘SIBIRISCHER  GINSENG ELIXIER’:tn OR ‘SOGOON’:tn OR ‘TELTONAL’:tn OR ‘TEUFELSKRALLE’:tn OR ‘VITABIOTICS  DEVILS CLAW TABLETS VITABIOTICS DEVILS CLAW TABLETS’:tn OR ‘ARPADOL’:tn OR ‘HARPADOL’:tn  OR ‘HARPAGOMED’:tn OR ‘SANAFLEX’:tn OR ‘SEDERGINE C’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 326/368   OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   338.  Calendula   ‘MIXTURE OF CALENDULA EX HERBA FLOR. PRESSED JUICE AND ETHANOL 96% (1:0.33)’ OR  ‘MISCHUNG AUS CALENDULA EX HERBA FLOR. PRESSSAFT UND ETHANOL 96% (1:0,33)’ OR  ‘CALENDULAE FLOS’ OR ‘CALENDULAE FLOS’ OR ‘EXTRACTUM SPISSUM COMPOSITUM EX: ARNICAE ET  CALENDULAE ANTHODIS; DER: 3 -7:1; EKSTRAHENT: METANOL 90 %)’ OR ‘WYCIĄG GĘSTY ZŁOŻONY  Z KOSZYCZKÓW ARNIKI I NAGIETKA DER: 3 -7:1; EKSTRAHENT: METANOL 90 %’ OR ‘CALENDULA’ OR  ‘MARIGOLD’ OR ‘SOUCI’ OR ‘CALENDULAE ANTHODIUM EXTRACTUM (0,09 : 1)’ OR ‘EKSTRAKT Z  KOSZYCZKA NAGIETKA LEKARSKIEGO (0,09:1)’ OR ‘CALENDULAE FLORIS EXTRACTUM FLUIDUM  (1:1)’ OR ‘WYCIĄG PŁYNNY Z NAGIETKA LEKARSKIEGO (1:1)’ OR ‘KLIŅĢERĪTES TINKTŪRA’ OR  ‘ARCALEN’:tn OR ‘AZUCALEN’:tn OR ‘BORAX PENTARKAN S’:tn OR ‘CALENDULA’:tn OR ‘CALENDULA - ESSENZ’:tn OR ‘CALENDULA -SALBE -HEEL S’:tn OR ‘CALENDULAN’:tn OR ‘CALENDUMED’:tn OR  ‘CEFALYMPHAT H’:tn OR ‘CREME AU CALENDULA’:tn OR ‘ENDHOMETROL’:tn OR ‘EPILOBIN’:tn OR  ‘EUPHRASIA COMP.’:tn OR ‘HEILSALBE’:tn OR ‘HEMOCAL’:tn OR ‘HOMEOPLASMINE’:tn OR  ‘HOMEOPTIC’:tn OR ‘HOMEOVOX’:tn OR ‘KALENDULA ZIEDE’:tn OR ‘KLIŅĢERĪTES TINKTŪRA’:tn OR  ‘MAŚĆ NAGIETKOWA’:tn OR ‘MERCURIALIS’:tn OR ‘MERCURIALIS COMP.’:tn OR ‘MUNDSCHLEIMHAUT -  UND GURGELMITTEL’:tn OR ‘NAGIETEK FIX’:tn OR ‘NARANOTOX COMP.’:tn OR ‘POMMADE AU  CALENDULA LHF’:tn OR ‘R55’:tn OR ‘RINGELBLUMENBLÜTEN’:tn OR ‘SEDATIF PC’:tn OR ‘SÉDATIF  PC’:tn OR ‘VAGICAL’:tn OR ‘SEDATIF PC’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   339.  Salvia   ‘SAGE LEAF TINCTURE’ OR ‘TINKTUR AUS SALBEIBLAETTERN’ OR ‘SAGE LEAF (SALVIA OFFICINALIS)’  OR ‘SALVIAE FOLIUM’ OR ‘VAISTINIŲ ŠALAVIJŲ LAPAI’ OR ‘SALVIAE OFFICINALIS FOLIUM’ OR ‘SAGE  LEAF FLUID EXTRACT (DER 1:4 -5, EXTRACTION MEDIUM ETHANOL 50% V/V)’ OR ‘AUSZUG AUS  SALBEIBLÄTTERN (DEV 1:4 -5, AUSZUGSMITTEL 50% ETHANOL V/V)’ OR ‘SALVIAE OFFICINALIS  AETHEROLEUM’ OR ‘ACEITE ESENCIAL DE SALVIA OFFICINALIS’ OR ‘SAGE LEAVES, ALCOHOLIC  LIQUID EXTRACT’ OR ‘ALKOHOLISCHER FLÜSSIGEXTRAKT AUS SALBEIBLÄTTERN’ OR ‘PRESSED JUICE  FROM FRESH SAGE HERB’ OR ‘PRESS -SAFT AUS FRISCHEM SALBEIKRAUT’ OR ‘SALVIA’ OR ‘SAUGE’ OR  ‘SAGE TINCTURE’ OR ‘SALVIAE TINCTURA’ OR ‘SALVIAE OLEUM’ OR ‘SAGE OIL’ OR ‘SALBEIÖL’ OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 327/368   ‘ETERIČNO OLJE ŽAJBLJA’ OR ‘ŠALVIOVÁ SILICA’ OR ‘OLEJEK SZAŁWIOWY’ OR ‘SALVIJAS EĻĻA’ OR  ‘ŠALAVIJŲ ETERINIS ALIEJUS’ OR ‘ZSÁLYAOLAJ’ OR ‘ETERIČNO ULJE KADULJE’ OR ‘SALVIAÖLJY’ OR  ‘SALBEIÖL’ OR ‘ŠALVĚJOVÁ SILICE’ OR ‘SAGE LEAF FLUID EXTRACT’ OR ‘FLÜSSIGEXTRAKT AUS  SALBEIBLÄTTERN’ OR ‘AMARA’:tn OR ‘APERISAN’:tn OR ‘ARCHANGELICA COMP.’:tn OR ‘DIABETAN’:tn  OR ‘FLORADIX SPITZWEGERICH -SAFT’:tn OR ‘FLORSALMIN’:tn OR ‘JABORANDI PENTARKAN S’:tn OR  ‘KNEIPP  SALBEIBLÄTTER TEE’:tn OR ‘LIŚĆ SZAŁWII’:tn OR ‘NATURREINER HEILPFLANZENSAFT  SALBEI’:tn OR ‘PFLÜGERPLEX SALVIA 122’:tn OR ‘PHYTOVIR’:tn OR ‘SALBEI’:tn OR  ‘SALBEIBLÄTTER’:tn OR ‘SWEATOSAN’:tn OR ‘SZAŁWIA FIX’:tn OR ‘TROPFEN GEGEN STARKES  SCHWITZEN’:tn OR ‘VAISTINIŲ ŠALAVIJŲ LAPAI ŠVF’:tn OR ‘VALVERDE’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   340.  Avena   ‘AVENA FATUA WHOLE.’ OR ‘VĒJAUZA’ OR ‘WÄSSRIGER AUSZUG MIT ZUCKER AUS AVENA SATIVA,  HERBA REC. (PFLANZE : WASSER : ZUCKER = 2 : 4 : 4)’ OR ‘AVENA’ OR ‘AVOINE’ OR ‘AVENA’ OR  ‘HAFER’ OR ‘AUZAS’ OR ‘OATMEAL’ OR ‘AVENAE HERBAE RECENTIS INTRACTUM (1:1)’ OR ‘OAT’ OR  ‘HAFERKORN’ OR ‘CULTIVATED OAT POLLEN’ OR ‘OATS POLLEN’ OR ‘HAFERPOLLEN’ OR ‘EXTRAKT AUS  HAFERPOLLEN’ OR ‘ALK 781 HAVREMEL’ OR ‘ALK -PRICK N 781 HAFERMEHL’ OR ‘BERUHIGUNGS - KOMPLEX L’ OR ‘CEFANEURO’ OR ‘DORM’:tn OR ‘ERHOLUNGSGLOBULI’:tn OR ‘GLOBULI GEGEN  SCHLAFSTÖRUNGEN’:tn OR ‘HAFER’:tn OR ‘HAFERKORN’:tn OR ‘LYCOAKTIN’:tn OR ‘NERVOREGIN  TROPFEN’:tn OR ‘PRICK -TESTLÖSUNG HAFER’:tn OR ‘PRICK -TESTLÖSUNG HAFERMEHL’:tn OR  ‘PROVOKATIONS -TESTLÖSUNG ASPERGILLUS FUMIGATUS’:tn OR ‘ROZTWORY DO TESTÓW  PROWOKACYJNYCH MĄKA OWSIANA’:tn OR ‘ROZTWORY DO TESTÓW PROWOKACYJNYCH OWIES’:tn  OR ‘SEDA -DO’:tn OR ‘STRESSDORON’:tn OR ‘THYREO’:tn OR ‘NEUREXAN’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 328/368   hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   341.  Passiflora   ‘WÄSSRIGER AUSZUG MIT ZUCKER AUS PASSIFLORA CAERULEA, HERBA REC.’ OR ‘PASSIFLORAE  HERBA’ OR ‘PASSIFLORAE HERBA’ OR ‘PASSIFLORA’ OR ‘PASSION FLOWER’ OR ‘PASSIFLORE’ OR  ‘PASSIFLORA INCARNATA’ OR ‘DRY EXTRACT OF PASSION FLOWER’ OR ‘NALEWKA Z ZIELA  MĘCZENNICY’ OR ‘PASSIONFLOWER DRY EXTRACT’ OR ‘WYCIĄG PŁUNNY Z PASSIFLORY’ OR ‘SUCHY  WYCIĄG Z ZIELA MĘCZENNICY’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS PASSIONSBLUMENKRAUT’ OR ‘HYPERICI  HERBA -LUPULOS -CRATAEGI FOLIUM CUM FLORE -VALERIANAE RADIX -SAMBUCUS FLOWERS -MELISSA - PASSION FLOWER’ OR ‘PASSIONSBLUMENKRAUT TE (5 -7:1), ETHANOL 60% (V/V)’ OR ‘ALPINAMED  PASSELYT’ OR ‘DYSTO -LOGES S’:tn OR ‘HOMEOGENE 46’:tn OR ‘KYTTA SEDATIVUM FÜR DEN TAG’:tn  OR ‘NATRACALM UK’:tn OR ‘NEUROSELECT’:tn OR ‘PASANG’:tn OR ‘PASCOFLAIR’:tn OR ‘PASINAT’:tn  OR ‘PASSIONSBLUMENKRAUT TEE’:tn OR ‘POTTERS NODOFF’:tn OR ‘POTTERS TENSION RELIEF’:tn OR  ‘SCHLAF -UND BERUHIGUNGSTEE SOLU DORMIX’:tn OR ‘SCHLAF - UND ENTSPANNUNGSTROPFEN’:tn  OR ‘SEDINAL’:tn OR ‘SPASCUPREEL’:tn OR ‘VALVERDE PASSIFLOR FORTE’:tn OR ‘PASSIFLORINE’:tn  OR ‘PASSIONSBLUME LIORAN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   342.  Artemisia   ‘WORMWOOD DRY EXTRACT’ OR ‘WERMUTKRAUT -TROCKENEXTRAKT’ OR ‘WÄSSRIGER EXTRAKT AUS  WERMUTKRAUT’ OR ‘ABSINTHIUM’ OR ‘ABSINTHE’ OR ‘VĪBOTNE’ OR ‘WERMUTKRAUT’ OR ‘MUGWORT’  OR ‘WORMWOOD’ OR ‘ASSENZIO SELVATICO’ OR ‘ARMOISE’ OR ‘MUGWORD’ OR ‘BEIFUΒPOLLEN’ OR  ‘TINCTURE FROM WORMWOOD HERB’ OR ‘WERMUTKRAUTEXTRAKT’ OR ‘EXTRAKT AUS  BEIFUSSPOLLEN’ OR ‘ARTEMISIA’ OR ‘ARTEMISA’ OR ‘ALK 312 ARTEMISIA VULGARIS (GRÅ BYNKE)’  OR ‘ALK 312 ARTEMISIA VULGARIS (GRÅBYNKE)’ OR ‘ALK -PRICK SQ 312 BEIFUSS’ OR ‘ALUTARD SQ  GRÅBO’ OR ‘AQUAGEN SQ 312 PUJO (ARTEMISIA VULGARIS) SIITEPÖLYT’ OR ‘AQUAGEN SQ GRÅBO’  OR ‘CEFARHEUMIN S’ OR ‘CEFATROPIN N’ OR ‘FLATULINI’ OR ‘GEMEINER BEIFUß HAL ALLERGY’ OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 329/368   ‘GENTIANA MAGEN’ OR ‘KARČIŲJŲ KIEČIŲ ŽOLĖ ŠVF’ OR ‘MAGEN -DARMTROPFEN N COSMOCHEMA’ OR  ‘PRICK -TESTLÖSUNG BEIFUß, GEMEINER’ OR ‘PROVOKATIONS -TESTLÖSUNG BEIFUß, GEMEINER’ OR  ‘ROZTWORY DO TESTÓW PROWOKACYJNYCH BYLICA POSPOLITA’ OR ‘SOLUPRICK SQ 312 PUJO  (ARTEMISIA VULGARIS) SIITEPÖLYT’ OR ‘SOLUPRICK SQ GRÅBO’:tn OR ‘SOLUPRICK SQ  ONKRUIDPOLLEN’:tn OR ‘SOLUPRICK SQ WEED POLLEN ARTEMISIA VULGARIS (MUGWORT)’:tn OR  ‘TAMARINDUS N OLIGOPLEX’:tn OR ‘VENTRIGUTT’:tn OR ‘WERMUTKRAUT’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   343.  Melissa   ‘DRY EXTRACT OF MELISSA MEDICINALIS’ OR ‘SUCHÝ EXTRAKT Z LISTU MEDOVKY LEKÁRSKEJ’ OR  ‘MELISSA LEAF’ OR ‘MELISSAE FOLIUM’ OR ‘LISTA NAVADNE MELISE’ OR ‘MELISSAE FOLIUM’ OR  ‘LIŚCI MELISY’ OR ‘PAGAMINTO IŠ MELISŲ LAPŲ’ OR ‘MELISSAE FOLIUM’ OR ‘ORVOSI CITROMFŰ  LEVÉL’ OR ‘MELISSENBLÄTTERN’ OR ‘MELISSENBLÄTTER’ OR ‘CITRONMELISSEBLAD’ OR ‘MELISSAE  FOLIUM’ OR ‘MAJORANA, HERBA / MELISSAE FOLIUM, OL. CACAO EXTR.’ OR ‘MELISSA OIL’ OR  ‘MELISSZA OLAJ’ OR ‘MELISSENÖL’ OR ‘MEDUŇKOVÁ SILICE’ OR ‘EXTRACTO METANÓLICO SECO DE  HOJAS DE MELISSA OFFICINALIS’ OR ‘MELISSA OFFICINALIS’ OR ‘MELISSAE HERBA’ OR ‘MELISSAE  FOLII DRY AQUEOUS EXTRACT’ OR ‘MELISSAE FOLII EXTRACTUM AQUOSUM SICCUM’ OR ‘MELISSA’  OR ‘LEMON BALM’ OR ‘MÉLISSE’ OR ‘MELISSAE FOLII EXTRACTUM SICCUM (DER 4 -6:1)’ OR  ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS MELISSENBLÄTTERN’ OR ‘LIQUID EXTRACT FROM VALERIAN ROOT/  ANGELICA ROOT/ MELISSA LEAF/ HOP STROBILE/ LAVENDER FLOWER (6/4/5/2/3) 1:2’ OR  ‘SKYSTASIS EKSTRAKTAS (1:2) IŠ VALERIJONŲ ŠAKNŲ / ŠVENTAGARŠVĖS ŠAKNŲ / MELISŲ LAPŲ /  APYNIŲ SPURGŲ / LEVANDŲ ŽIEDŲ (6/4/5/2/3)’ OR ‘EXTRACTUM FLUIDUM EX: MILLEFOLII  HERBA,  MARRUBII HERBA, MELISSAE FOLIO, FOENICULI FRUCTU’ OR ‘WYCIĄG PŁYNNY ZŁOŻONY Z: ZIELA  KRWAWNIKA, ZIELA SZANTY, LIŚCIA MELISY I OWOCU KOPRU WŁOSKIEGO’ OR ‘TORRT EXTRACT AV  MELISSA OFFICINALIS L.’ OR ‘FOLIUM MELISSAE EXTRACT’ OR ‘DICKEXTRAKT AUS  MELISSENBLÄTTERN (2,3 -3,0:1), AUSZUGSMITTEL: WASSER’ OR ‘MELISSAE EXTRACTUM SICCUM’ OR  ‘ABDOMILON N’ OR ‘AMAROSAL’ OR ‘DROGENS STÆRK BALDRIAN MED CITRONMELISSE’ OR ‘EAU DES  CARMES BOYER’ OR ‘GASTROVEGETALIN’ OR ‘LIŚĆ MELISY’ OR ‘LOMAHERPAN’ OR ‘MAJORANA /  MELISSA’ OR ‘MAJORANA / MELISSA WELEDA’ OR ‘ME -SABONA ’ OR ‘MELISA FIX’:tn OR ‘MELISANA’:tn  OR ‘MELISSA/SEPIA COMP.’:tn OR ‘MELISSENBLÄTTER’:tn OR ‘MELISSENGEIST’:tn OR  ‘MELISSENÖL’:tn OR ‘NERVEN -TEE NA’:tn OR ‘NERVINUM FIX’:tn OR ‘NEUROMED’:tn OR ‘SAVEDORM  ’:tn OR ‘SEDINFANT ’:tn OR ‘SONGHA’:tn OR ‘VITALIA STÆRK BALDRIAN MED CITRONMELISSE’:tn OR  ‘IBEROGAST’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 330/368   effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   344.  Vitex   ‘VITEX AGNUS CASTUS’ OR ‘CHASTE TREE’ OR ‘CHASTEBERRY’ OR ‘KEUSCHLAMMFRÜCHTEN’ OR  ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS KEUSCHLAMMFRÜCHTEN (7 -13 : 1)’ OR ‘DRY EXTRACT OF CHASTE TREE  FRUITS (7 -13 : 1)’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS KEUSCHLAMMFRÜCHTEN (10 -16:1)’ OR ‘DRY EXTRACT  OF AGNUS CASTUS FRUIT (7 -13:1)’ OR ‘AGNO -SABONA ’ OR ‘AGNOLYT’:tn OR ‘AGNUS CASTUS’:tn OR  ‘AGNUS SANOL’:tn OR ‘AGNUSFEMINA’:tn OR ‘BIOFEM’:tn OR ‘CEFANORM’:tn OR ‘DAMIANA N  OLIGOPLEX’:tn OR ‘DR. BÖHM  MÖNCHSPFEFFER’:tn OR ‘DYSMENORM’:tn OR ‘FEMICUR N’:tn OR  ‘FLUOR -ZÄPFCHEN S COSMOCHEMA’:tn OR ‘MÖNCHSPFEFFER RATIOPHARM’:tn OR ‘PASCOFEMIN  SL’:tn OR ‘PREMEEZE’:tn OR ‘R41’:tn OR ‘SARAI’:tn OR ‘STROTAN’:tn OR ‘TONDINEL COMP.  PFLÜGER’:tn OR ‘AGNOLYT’:tn OR ‘AGNUS CASTUS’:tn OR ‘PREMENS’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   345.  Equisteum   ‘BETULAE FOLIUM’ OR ‘BIRCH LEAF’ OR ‘BETULAE FOLIUM’ OR ‘BOULEAU (FEUILLE DE)’ OR  ‘HORSETAIL STEM’ OR ‘PRÊLE (TIGE DE)’ OR ‘EQUISETUM’ OR ‘COLA DE CABALLO’ OR ‘HORSETAIL’ OR  ‘SCHACHTELHALMKRAUT’ OR ‘EXTRACT OF EQUISETUM ARVENSE’ OR ‘SCHACHTELHALMKRAUT -     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 331/368   TROCKENEXTRAKT’ OR ‘EQUISETI HERBA’ OR ‘ZIELE SKRZYPU’ OR ‘EQUISETI HERBA’:tn OR  ‘ZINNKRAUT’:tn OR ‘AURUM D30 / EQUISETUM ARVENSE D20 AA’:tn OR ‘AURUM/EQUISETUM I’:tn OR  ‘AURUM/EQUISETUM II’:tn OR ‘BLASEN - UND NIERENTEE’:tn OR ‘CANTHARIS BLASEN’:tn OR  ‘CYSTISORIN N’:tn OR ‘DISCI COMP. CUM NICOTIANA’:tn OR ‘DISCI COMP. CUM PULSATILLA’:tn OR  ‘DISCI COMP. CUM STANNO’:tn OR ‘DISCI/VISCUM COMP. CUM STANNO’:tn OR ‘DIURINAT’:tn OR  ‘DIURISIL’:tn OR ‘DURCHSPÜLUNGSTEE’:tn OR ‘ENTSCHLACKUNGS -TEE’:tn OR ‘EQUISETUM’:tn OR  ‘EQUISETUM/FORMICA’:tn OR ‘EQUISETUM/STANNUM’:tn OR ‘EQUISETUM/VISCUM’:tn OR ‘FUGACID  ’:tn OR ‘HANONEPHRIN’:tn OR ‘HARNSÄURELÖSER -TEE’:tn OR ‘KNEIPP  BLASEN - & NIEREN TEE’:tn OR  ‘LENS VISCUM COMP.’:tn OR ‘LIEN COMP.’:tn OR ‘LYMPHOMYOSOT’:tn OR ‘NIEREN -& BLASEN -TEE’:tn  OR ‘PANCREAS/EQUISETUM’:tn OR ‘POTTERS ANTITIS CYSTITIS RELIEF’:tn OR ‘R18’:tn OR  ‘RENES/EQUISETUM COMP.’:tn OR ‘SKRZYP FIX’:tn OR ‘UROSAN FIX’:tn OR ‘ZIELE SKRZYPU’:tn OR  ‘ZINNKRAUT’:tn OR ‘PROSTATE FORMULA’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   346.  Ricinus   ‘CASTOR OIL VIRGIN’ OR ‘RICINI OLEUM VIRGINALE’ OR ‘NEAPSTRĀDĀTA RĪCINEĻĻA’ OR  ‘NATŪRALUSIS RICINOS ALIEJUS’ OR ‘RICINI OLEUM VIRGINALE’ OR ‘SZŰZ RICINUSOLAJ’ OR ‘RICIN  (HUILE DE) VIERGE’ OR ‘NATIVES RIZINUSÖL’ OR ‘PANENSKÝ RICINOVÝ OLEJ’ OR ‘CASTOR OIL’ OR  ‘RIZINUSÖL’:tn OR ‘RICIN OIL’:tn OR ‘OLEJ RYCYNOWY’:tn OR ‘RICINOLJA’:tn OR ‘RICINUSOVO  OLJE’:tn OR ‘RICÍNOVÝ OLEJ’:tn OR ‘ULEI DE RICIN’:tn OR ‘ÓLEO DE CASTOR’:tn OR ‘ÓLEO DE  RÍCINO’:tn OR ‘OLEJ RYCYNOWY’:tn OR ‘RICINUSOLJE’:tn OR ‘CASTOR OLIE’:tn OR ‘RICINUSOLIE’:tn  OR ‘ŻEJT IR -RIĠNU’:tn OR ‘RICINEĻĻA’:tn OR ‘OLIO DI RICINO’:tn OR ‘RICINUSOLAJ’:tn OR  ‘RICINUSOVO ULJE’:tn OR ‘HUILE DE RICIN’:tn OR ‘RISIINIÖLJY’:tn OR ‘RIITSINUSE SEEMNETEST  SAADUD ÕLI’:tn OR ‘ACEITE DE RICINO’:tn OR ‘OLEUM RICINI’:tn OR ‘CASTOR OIL’:tn OR  ‘RIZINUSÖL’:tn OR ‘RICINUSOLIE’:tn OR ‘RICINOVÝ OLEJ’:tn OR ‘RAFFINIERTES RIZINUSÖL’:tn OR  ‘RISINUSOLIE RENSET’:tn OR ‘RICINUSOLIE RENSET’:tn OR ‘ABFÜHR N AKUT’:tn OR ‘ABFÜHR SN’:tn  OR ‘ABFÜHR -KAPSELN RIZINOL’:tn OR ‘ABFÜHRKAPSELN’:tn OR ‘LAXOPOL’:tn OR ‘LINITUL’:tn OR  ‘OLEJ RYCYNOWY’:tn OR ‘OLEUM RICINI’:tn OR ‘OTOCERUM’:tn OR ‘RICINOS ALIEJUS VALENTIS’:tn  OR ‘RĪCINEĻĻA’:tn OR ‘SURGICAL SPIRIT BP’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 332/368   'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   347.  Phleum   ‘TIMOTHY GRASS POLLEN EXTRACT’ OR ‘PHLEUM PRATENSE’ OR ‘CODOLINA’ OR ‘PHLÉOLE’ OR ‘FLEO  DE LOS PRADOS’ OR ‘TIMOTHY’ OR ‘WIESENLIESCHGRAS’ OR ‘PHLEUM PRATENSE L.’ OR ‘TIMOTIŅŠ’  OR ‘PHLEUM PRATENSE POLLEN’ OR ‘GRASS POLLEN THICK EXTRACT (RYE : TIMOTHY GRASS :  MAIZE; 30:1.5:1)’ OR ‘CERNITIN T 60 (SECALE CEREALE : PHLEUM PRATENSE : ZEA MAYS; 30:1,5:1)’  OR ‘DICKEXTRAKT AUS GRÄSERPOLLEN (ROGGEN : TIMOTHY GRAS : MAIS; 30:1,5:1)’ OR ‘GRASS  POLLEN ALLERGEN EXTRACT FROM COCKSFOOT , SWEET VERNAL GRASS , RYE GRASS , MEADOW  GRASS  AND TIMOTHY’ OR ‘ALERGENSKI IZVLEČEK IZ CVETNEGA PRAHU NASLEDNJIH TRAV: PASJE  TRAVE, DIŠEČE BOLJKE, TRPEŽNE LJULJKE, TRAVNIŠKE LATOVKE IN MAČJEGA REPA’ OR ‘EXTRAKT  ALERGÉNOV TRÁVOVÝCH PEĽOV: REZNAČKA LALOČNATÁ, TOMKA VOŇAVÁ, MÄTONOH TRVÁCI,  LIPNICA LÚČNA A TIMOTEJKA LÚČNA’ OR ‘EXTRACT DE ALERGEN DIN POLEN DE GRAMINEE:  GOLOMĂŢ, VIŢELAR, ZÂZANIE , FIRUŢĂ ŞI TIMOFTICĂ’ OR ‘EXTRACTO ALERGÉNICO DO PÓLEN DE  GRAMÍNEAS DE: PANASCO, GRAMA DE CHEIRO, LÓTIO, POA E FLÉO’ OR ‘WYCIĄG ALERGENÓW Z  PYŁKÓW NASTĘPUJĄCYCH TRAW: KUPKÓWKA POSPOLITA , TOMKA WONNA , ŻYCICA TRWAŁA ,  WIECHLINA ŁĄKOWA ORAZ TYMOTKA ŁĄKOWA’ OR ‘ALLERGEENEXTRACT VAN GRASPOLLEN VAN:  KROPAAR, GEWOON REUKGRAS, ENGELS RAAIGRAS , VELDBEEMDGRAS EN TIMOTHEEGRAS .’ OR  ‘ŠĀDU ZĀLES ZIEDPUTEKŠŅU ALERGĒNU EKSTRAKTA: PARASTĀ KAMOLZĀLE , PARASTĀ SMARŽZĀLE,  DAUDZGADĪGĀ AIRENE, PĻAVAS SKARENE UN PĻAVAS TIMOTIŅŠ’ OR ‘PAPRASTOSIOS ŠUNAŽOLĖS,  KVAPIOSIOS GARDŪNYTĖS, DAUGIAMETĖS SVIDRĖS, PIEVINĖS MIGLĖS IR PAŠARINIO MOTIEJUKO  ŽIEDADULKIŲ ALERGENŲ EKSTRAKTO’ OR ‘ESTRATTO ALLERGENICO DI POLLINE DI GRAMINACEEDI:  MAZZOLINA, PALEO ODOROSO, LOGLIARELLO, ERBA DEI PRATI E CODOLINA’ OR ‘FŰPOLLEN  ALLERGÉN KIVONAT A KÖVETKEZŐKBŐL: CSOMÓS EBÍR, ILLATOS BORJÚPÁZSIT, ANGOL PERJE, RÉTI  PERJE ÉS MEZEI KOMÓCSIN’ OR ‘EXTRAIT ALLERGÉNIQUE DE POLLENS DES GRAMINÉES SUIVANTES:  DACTYLE AGGLOMÉRÉ , FLOUVE ODORANTE, IVRAIE VIVACE , PÂTURIN DES PRÉS ET FLÉOLE DES  PRÉS’ OR ‘HEINTAIMEDE ÕIETOLMU ALLERGEENIDE EKSTRAKT: HARILIK KERAHEIN , LÕHNAV  MAARJAHEIN , KARJAMAA -RAIHEIN , AASNURMIKAS JA PÕLDTIMUT’ OR ‘EXTRACTO ALERGÉNICO DE  POLEN DE GRAMÍNEAS DE: DÁCTILO, GRAMA DE OLOR, BALLICO, ESPIGUILLA Y FLEO DE LOS  PRADOS’ OR ‘GRÄSERPOLLENALLERGENEXTRAKT AUS: WIESENKNÄUELGRAS,GEWÖHNLICHEN  RUCHGRAS, DEUTSCHEN WEIDELGRAS,WIESENRISPENGRAS UND WIESENLIESCHGRAS.’ OR  ‘GRAMINIS POLLINIS EXTRAKTUM: SRHA LALOČNATÁ, TOMKA VONNÁ , JÍLEK VYTRVALÝ , LIPNICE  LUČNÍ A BOJÍNEK LUČNÍ’ OR ‘ALK -DEPOT SQ 200 GRÄSERMISCHUNG UND ROGGEN’ OR ‘ALK -DEPOT  SQ 299 GRÄSERMISCHUNG’ OR ‘ALK -LYOPHILISIERT SQ 225 WIESENLIESCHGRAS’ OR ‘ALK - LYOPHILISIERT SQ 299 GRÄSERMISCHUNG’:tn OR ‘ALK -PRICK SQ 225 WIESENLIESCHGRAS ‘:tn OR  ‘ALK-PRICK SQ 299 GRÄSERMISCHUNG’:tn OR ‘ALK7 GRÄSERMISCHUNG UND ROGGEN’:tn OR  ‘ALLERGOVIT GRAESER’:tn OR ‘ALLERGOVIT GRAESER/GETREIDE + BEIFUß’:tn OR ‘ALUTARD SQ 5 -    European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 333/368   GRÄS’:tn OR ‘ALUTARD SQ GRASFRJÓ’:tn OR ‘ALUTARD SQ PDL -GRÄS’:tn OR ‘ALUTARD SQ TIMOTEI  (PHLEUM PRATENSE)’:tn OR ‘ALUTARD SQ TIMOTEI (PHLEUM PRATENSE), STARTPAKNING’:tn OR  ‘ALUTARD SQ TIMOTEJ’:tn OR ‘AQUAGEN SQ 225 TIMOTEI (PHLEUM PRATENSE) SIITEPÖLYT’:tn OR  ‘AQUAGEN SQ TIMOTEJ’:tn OR ‘CATALET T’:tn OR ‘GRAZAX’:tn OR ‘GRÄSERPOLLEN -MISCHUNG HAL  ALLERGY’:tn OR ‘KAPPAL ’:tn OR ‘KEOLIUM’:tn OR ‘ORALAIR’:tn OR ‘PEROSALL T13’:tn OR ‘PHLEUM  PRATENSE SOLUPRICK’:tn OR ‘POLEN DE PHLEUM PRATENSE SOLUPRICK’:tn OR ‘POLLSTIMOL -CERNIL  TABLETTA’:tn OR ‘POLLSTIMOL ’:tn OR ‘PRICK TEST POLLEN HAL ALLERGY’:tn OR ‘PRICK - TESTLÖSUNG GRÄSER’:tn OR ‘PRICK -TESTLÖSUNG GRÄSER/GETREIDE’:tn OR ‘PRICK -TESTLÖSUNG  WIESENLIESCHGRAS’:tn OR ‘PROVOKATIONS -TESTLÖSUNG GRÄSER’:tn OR ‘PROVOKATIONS - TESTLÖSUNG GRÄSER/GETREIDE’:tn OR ‘PURETHAL’:tn OR ‘PURETHAL  GRÄSER’:tn OR ‘PURETHAL   GRÄSER + BIRKE’:tn OR ‘PURETHAL  GRÄSER + BÄUME’:tn OR ‘PURETHAL  GRÄSER + GETREIDE’:tn OR  ‘ROZTWORY DO TESTÓW PROWOKACYJNYCH TRAWY 100%’:tn OR ‘ROZTWORY DO TESTÓW  PROWOKACYJNYCH TRAWY/ZBOŻA 100%’:tn OR ‘ROZTWORY DO TESTÓW PROWOKACYJNYCH  TYMOTKA ŁĄKOWA’:tn OR ‘SOLUPRCK SQ EXTRAIT ALLERGÉNIQUE DE POLLEN DE FLÉOLE DES PRÉS  (PHLEUM PRATENSE)’:tn OR ‘SOLUPRCK SQ PHLEUM PRATENSE POLLEN’:tn OR ‘SOLUPRICK SQ 225  TIMOTEI (PHLEUM PRATENSE) SIITEPÖLYT’:tn OR ‘SOLUPRICK SQ EXTRAIT ALLERGÉNIQUE DE  POLLEN DE FLÉOLE DES PRÉS (PHLEUM PRATENSE)’:tn OR ‘SOLUPRICK SQ GRASFRJÓ’:tn OR  ‘SOLUPRICK SQ GRASPOLLEN’:tn OR ‘SOLUPRICK SQ GRASS POLLEN PHLEUM PRATENSE (TIMOTHY  GRASS)’:tn OR ‘SOLUPRICK SQ PHLEUM PRATENSE POLLEN’:tn OR ‘SOLUPRICK SQ TIMOTEI’:tn OR  ‘SOLUPRICK SQ TIMOTEJ’:tn OR ‘SOLUPRICK SQ TIMOTHY GRASS (PHLEUM PRATENSE) POLLEN’:tn  OR ‘SOLUPRICK SQ WIESENLIESCHGRAS’:tn OR ‘WIESENLIESCHGRAS’:tn OR ‘WIESENLIESCHGRAS  HAL ALLERGY’:tn OR ‘ALK 225 PHLEUM PRATENSE’:tn OR ‘GRAZAX’:tn OR ‘ORALAIR’:tn AND ('adverse  drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR  'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   348.  Sambucus   ‘SAMBUCI FLOS+A25A21A1:A24A1:A26A1:A25A1:A27A1:A25’ OR ‘SAMBUCI FLOS’ OR ‘SAMBUCI  NIGRAE EXTRACTUM FLUIDUM’ OR ‘SAMBUCUS NIGRA LIQUID EXTRACT’ OR ‘SAMBUCUS NIGRA L.’ OR  ‘PLŪŠKOKS’ OR ‘SAMBUCUS NIGRA’ OR ‘SAMBUCO’ OR ‘SUREAU’ OR ‘SAÚCO’ OR ‘HOLUNDER’ OR  ‘SAMBUCI FRUCTUS’ OR ‘SAMBUCUS NIGRA FLOWER’ OR ‘ELDER FLOWERS’ OR ‘ELDER FLOWER’ OR  ‘SUREAU (FLEUR DE)’ OR ‘EXTRACTUM FLUIDUM EX: FARFARAE FOLIO, SAMBUCI FLORE, ILIAE  INFLORESCENTIA, SALICIS CORTICE’ OR ‘WYCIĄG PŁYNNY ZŁOŻONY Z: LIŚCIA PODBIAŁU, KWIATU  BZU CZARNEGO, KWIATOSTANU LIPY I KORY WIERZBY’ OR ‘EXTRACTUM COMPOSITUM (1:2) EX:  HELICHRYSI INFLORESCENTIA, MATRICARIAE FLORE, CORIANDRI FRUCTU, SAMBUCI FRUCTU’ OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 334/368   ‘WYCIĄG ZŁOŻONY (1:2) Z: KWIATOSTANU KOCANEK, KWIATU RUMIANKU, OWOCU KOLENDRY,  OWOCU BZU CZARNEGO’ OR ‘LIQUID EXTRACT FROM MULLEIN FLOWER, LIME FLOWER, WILLIOW  BARK, ELDER FLOWER’ OR ‘WYCIĄG PŁYNNY Z KWIATU DZIEWANNY, KWIATU LIPY, KORY WIERZBY,  KWIATU BZU CZARNEGO’ OR ‘ATMA’:tn OR ‘CHOLESOL’:tn OR ‘CITRUS / QUARZ COMP.’:tn OR  ‘HOLUNDERBLÜTEN’:tn OR ‘PATES DE REGLISSE AU SAMBUCUS’:tn OR ‘PFLÜGERPLEX ASA FOETIDA  139 H’:tn OR ‘POTTERS COLD & FLU RELIEF’:tn OR ‘POTTERS JOINT PAIN RELIEF’:tn OR ‘PYROSAL’:tn  OR ‘SAMBUCUS COMP’:tn OR ‘SINUMAR’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   349.  Taraxacum   ‘DANDELION, AQUEOUS LIQUID EXTRACT’ OR ‘WÄSSRIGER EXTRAKT AUS LÖWENZAHN - GANZPFLANZE’ OR ‘TARAXACI RADIX’ OR ‘TARAXACUM OFFICINALE’ OR ‘LIONS TOOTH’ OR  ‘TARAXACUM OFFICINALE‘ OR ‘TARAXACUM VULGARE’ OR ‘DANDELION’ OR ‘TARAXACUM OFFICINALIS’  OR ‘MNISZEK LEKARSKI’ OR ‘PAARDEBLOEM’ OR ‘ĀRSTNIECĪBAS PIENENE’ OR ‘DENTE DI LEONE’ OR  ‘PISSENLIT’ OR ‘DIENTE DE LÉON’ OR ‘COMMON DANDELION’ OR ‘(COMMON) DANDELION’ OR  ‘LÖWENZAHN’ OR ‘TARAXACUM LIQUID EXTRACT’ OR ‘FLUIDEXTRAKT AUS LÖWENZAHN - GANZPFLANZE’ OR ‘TARAXACI INTRACTUM (1:1)’ OR ‘INTRAKT Z MNISZKA LEKARSKIEGO (1:1)’ OR  ‘AGROPYRON’:tn OR ‘ALK -PRICK N 351 LÖWENZAHN’:tn OR ‘BOOTS HERBAL SLIM AID’:tn OR  ‘CUPARCEN HM INJ.’:tn OR ‘DIGESTO’:tn OR ‘GASTRIL’:tn OR ‘LÖWENZAHN’:tn OR  ‘PANKREATICUM’:tn OR ‘PAVERYSAT L’:tn OR ‘POTTERS SLIM AID’:tn OR ‘PRICK -TESTLÖSUNG  LÖWENZAHN’:tn OR ‘PROVOKATIONS -TESTLÖSUNG LÖWENZAHN’:tn OR ‘ROZTWORY DO TESTÓW  PROWOKACYJNYCH MNISZEK LEKARSKI’:tn OR ‘TARAXACUM STANNO CULTUM’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 335/368   'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   350.  Viscum   ‘VISCUM ALBUM, DRY EXTRACT’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS MISTELKRAUT’ OR ‘MISTLETOE EXTRACT’  OR ‘VISCUM ALBUM’ OR ‘EUROPEAN MISTLETOE’ OR ‘VISCUM ALBUM’ OR ‘VISCUM ALBUM HERBA’ OR  ‘VISCI HERBAE INTRACTUM (1:1)’ OR ‘VISCI HERBA’ OR ‘MISTELKRAUT -PULVER’ OR  ‘ABNOBAVISCUM’:tn OR ‘ARTERIA -HEEL’:tn OR ‘ARTERIA -HEEL N’:tn OR ‘ARTHROCALMAN’:tn OR  ‘HELIXOR A’:tn OR ‘HELIXOR M’:tn OR ‘HELIXOR P’:tn OR ‘HOMEO -ORTHIM’:tn OR ‘HORNERZ CORPUS  VITREUM COMP.’:tn OR ‘HORNERZ/CARTILAGO COMP.’:tn OR ‘HORNERZ/CORPUS VITREUM COMP.’:tn  OR ‘ISCADOR M’:tn OR ‘ISCADOR P’:tn OR ‘ISCADOR P C. HG’:tn OR ‘ISCADOR QU’:tn OR ‘ISCADOR U  C. HG’:tn OR ‘ISCADOR  M’:tn OR ‘ISCADOR  QU’:tn OR ‘ISCUCIN ABIETIS’:tn OR ‘ISCUCIN MALI’:tn OR  ‘ISCUCIN PINI’:tn OR ‘ISCUCIN POPULI’:tn OR ‘ISOREL  A (ABIETIS)’:tn OR ‘ISOREL  M (MALI)’:tn OR  ‘ISOREL  P (PINI)’:tn OR ‘LEKTINOL’:tn OR ‘MAGNESIT/MAMMA COMP.’:tn OR ‘MISTEL - KRÄUTERTABLETTEN’:tn OR ‘PLENOSOL’:tn OR ‘VERTIZIN’:tn OR ‘VISCUM ALBUM HM’:tn OR ‘VISCUM  ALBUM S OLIGOPLEX’:tn OR ‘ABNOBAVISCUM’:tn OR ‘HELIXOR P’:tn OR ‘ISCADOR M’:tn OR ‘ISCADOR  QU C. HG’:tn OR ‘MISTEL’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   351.  Citrus   ‘BITTER -ORANGE EPICARP AND MESOCARP’ OR ‘AURANTII AMARI EPICARPIUM ET MESOCARPIUM’ OR  ‘CITRUS LIMONUM (610)’ OR ‘GRAPEFRUIT’:tn OR ‘WÄSSRIGER EXTRAKT AUS  POMERANZENSCHALE’:tn OR ‘SWEET ORANGE PEEL’:tn OR ‘SÜßORANGENSCHALEN’:tn OR ‘CITRUS  AURANTIUM’:tn OR ‘BITTER ORANGE’:tn OR ‘NATURAL LEMON OILS’:tn OR ‘OIL OF LEMON’:tn OR  ‘LIMONIS AETHEROLEUM’:tn OR ‘CITRONOLJA’:tn OR ‘NARAVNA LIMONINA OLJA’:tn OR ‘CITRÓNOVÁ  SILICA’:tn OR ‘ULEIURI NATURALE DE LĂMÂIE’:tn OR ‘OLEJEK CYTRYNOWY’:tn OR ‘CITROENOLIE’:tn  OR ‘CITRINŲ ETERINIO ALIEJAUS’:tn OR ‘CITROM ILLÓOLAJ’:tn OR ‘HUILE ESSENTIELLE DE  CITRON’:tn OR ‘ACEITE DE LIMON’:tn OR ‘ACEITE ESENCIAL DE LIMÓN’:tn OR ‘CITRONENÖL’:tn OR  ‘ZITRONENÖL’:tn OR ‘CITRÓNOVÁ SILICE’:tn OR ‘ARANCIO TINTURA’:tn OR ‘TEINTURE DORANGE’:tn     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 336/368   OR ‘OLEJEK POMARAŃCZOWY’:tn OR ‘APELSINOLJA’:tn OR ‘OLJE POMARANČ’:tn OR ‘POMARAČOVÝ  OLEJ’:tn OR ‘SILICA OPLODIA SLADKÉHO POMARANČA’:tn OR ‘ULEI DE PORTOCALĂ’:tn OR ‘ULEI  VOLATIL DE PORTOCALE’:tn OR ‘OLEJEK POMARAŃCZOWY’:tn OR ‘APPELSINOLJE’:tn OR ‘APELSINŲ  ETERINIS ALIEJUS’:tn OR ‘OLIO DARANCIA’:tn OR ‘ESSENZA DARANCIO’:tn OR ‘OLIO DARANCIO’:tn  OR ‘APPELSÍNUOLÍU’:tn OR ‘APPELSÍNUOLÍA’:tn OR ‘NARANCSOLAJ’:tn OR ‘ULJE NARANCE’:tn OR  ‘HUILE DORANGE’:tn OR ‘APPELSIINIÖLJY’:tn OR ‘APELSINIÕLI’:tn OR ‘ACEITE DE NARANJA’:tn OR  ‘ORANGENÖL’:tn OR ‘APPELSINOLIE’:tn OR ‘SILICE OPLODÍ SLADKÉHO POMERANČE’:tn OR ‘CITRUS  NOBILIS’:tn OR ‘CLEMENTINE’:tn OR ‘KLEMENTYNKA’:tn OR ‘MANDARIJN’:tn OR ‘CLEMENTINE’:tn OR  ‘CITRUS LIMON’:tn OR ‘BITTERORANGENSCHALE’:tn OR ‘OPLODJA GRENKEGA POMARANČEVCA’:tn OR  ‘OPLODJA GRENKEGA POMARANČEVCA’:tn OR ‘OWOCNI POMARAŃCZY’:tn OR ‘OWOCNI  POMARANCZY’:tn OR ‘APELSINŲ VAISIŲ ŽIEVELIŲ’:tn OR ‘POMERANZENSCHALE’:tn OR ‘LIME  POLLEN’:tn OR ‘LINDENPOLLEN’:tn OR ‘ORANGE’:tn OR ‘APELSIN’:tn OR ‘SINAASAPPEL’:tn OR  ‘APELSĪNU’:tn OR ‘APPELSÍNU’:tn OR ‘ORANGE’:tn OR ‘NARANJA’:tn OR ‘ORANGE’:tn OR ‘APPELSIN’:tn  OR ‘ULEI DE PORTOCALE FLA CP’:tn OR ‘ÓLEO DE LARANJA FLA CP’:tn OR ‘SINAASAPPELOLIE FLA  CP’:tn OR ‘HUILES ESSENTIELLES DORANGE FLA CP’:tn OR ‘APPELSIINIÖLJY FLA CP’:tn OR ‘ALK 603  APPELSIN’:tn OR ‘ALK -PRICK N 603 ORANGE’:tn OR ‘ALK -PRICK N 610 ZITRONE’:tn OR ‘APFELSINE’:tn  OR ‘CITRUS 10%’:tn OR ‘CITRUS E FRUCTIBUS/CYDONIA E FRUCTIBUS’:tn OR ‘EPICUTANTEST - TROLAB D0502’:tn OR ‘EPICUTANTEST -TROLAB D1309’:tn OR ‘EPICUTANTEST -TROLAB D1356’:tn OR  ‘GENCYDO’:tn OR ‘HEUSCHNUPFENSPRAY’:tn OR ‘LINDE’:tn OR ‘PRICK -TESTLÖSUNG APFELSINE  (ORANGE)’:tn OR ‘PRICK -TESTLÖSUNG CLEMENTINE’:tn OR ‘PRICK -TESTLÖSUNG GRAPEFRUIT’:tn OR  ‘SILICEA COLLOIDALIS COMP.’:tn OR ‘TROLAB E0502’:tn OR ‘TROLAB E1309’:tn OR ‘TROLAB  E1356’:tn OR ‘VC15’:tn OR ‘GENCYDO’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   352.  Corylus   ‘CORYLUS AVELLANA’ OR ‘NOCCIOLO’ OR ‘NOISETIER’ OR ‘AVELLANO’ OR ‘HASEL -STRAUCH’ OR  ‘HAZELNUT’ OR ‘CORYLUS AVELLANA L.’ OR ‘LAZDA’ OR ‘CORYLUS AVELLANA POLLEN’ OR ‘EXTRAKT  AUS HASELNÜSSEN’ OR ‘CORYLUS AVELLANA POLLEN EXTRACT’ OR ‘ALK 113 CORYLUS AVELLANA  (GRÅ EL)’ OR ‘ALK 113 CORYLUS AVELLANA (HASSEL)’ OR ‘ALK 761 HASSELNØD’ OR ‘ALK -DEPOT SQ  113 HASEL’ OR ‘ALK -LYOPHILISIERT SQ 113 HASEL’ OR ‘ALK -PRICK N 761 HASELNUSS’ OR ‘ALK - PRICK SQ 113 HASEL’ OR ‘ALLERGOVIT ERLE + HASEL’ OR ‘ALLERGOVIT HASEL’ OR ‘AQUAGEN SQ  113 PÄHKINÄPENSAS (CORYLUS AVELLANA) SIITEPÖLYT’ OR ‘HASEL’ OR ‘HASELNUSS HAL ALLERGY’  OR ‘HAZEL POLLEN’ OR ‘PRICK -TESTLÖSUNG BÄUME I/FRÜHBLÜHER’ OR ‘PRICK -TESTLÖSUNG HASEL’     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 337/368   OR ‘PRICK -TESTLÖSUNG HASELNUSS’ OR ‘PROVOKATIONS -TESTLÖSUNG BÄUME/FRÜHBLÜHER’ OR  ‘PROVOKATIONS -TESTLÖSUNG HASEL’ OR ‘PURETHAL BÄUME’ OR ‘ROZTWORY DO TESTÓW  PROWOKACYJNYCH LESZCZYNA’ OR ‘ROZTWORY DO TESTÓW PROWOKACYJNYCH PLATAN DRZEWA I’  OR ‘SOLUPRICK SQ 113 PÄHKINÄPENSAS (CORYLUS AVELLANA) SIITEPÖLYT’ OR ‘SOLUPRICK SQ  HASSEL’ OR ‘NOVO -HELISEN DEPOT’ AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   353.  Gentiana   ‘GENTIAN TINCTURE (1 : 5) EXTRACTION AGENTS: ETHANOL 70 (PER CENT)’ OR ‘GENTIAN ROOT’ OR  ‘KORENINE RUMENEGA SVIŠČA’ OR ‘GENTIANAE RADIX’ OR ‘HORCOVÝ KOREŇ’ OR ‘KORZENIA  GORYCZKI’ OR ‘GENCIJONŲ ŠAKNIASTIEBIŲ’ OR ‘GENTIANAE RADIX’ OR ‘TÁRNICSGYÖKÉR’ OR  ‘GENTIANE (RACINE DE)’ OR ‘ENZIANWURZEL’ OR ‘GENTIANAE RADIX’ OR ‘WÄSSRIGER EXTRAKT AUS  ENZIANWURZEL’:tn OR ‘GENTIAN TINCTURE’:tn OR ‘ENZIANTINKTUR’:tn OR ‘GENTIANA LUTEA’:tn OR  ‘GENTIAN SOFT EXTRACT’:tn OR ‘GENZIANA ESTRATTO MOLLE’:tn OR ‘GENTIAN INFUSION’:tn OR  ‘ENZIANWURZELTROCKENEXTRAKT’:tn OR ‘AMARO MEDICINALE’:tn OR ‘CHINASORIN’:tn OR ‘EFFICO  TONIC’:tn OR ‘ENZIAN -TROPFEN’:tn OR ‘ESBERISIN’:tn OR ‘GASTRIN -DO’:tn OR ‘NUX VOMICA  COMP’:tn OR ‘PFLÜGERPLEX DIOSCOREA 178’:tn OR ‘POTTERS HEARTBURN RELIEF PLUS MIXTURE’:tn  AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR  misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp  OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 338/368   354.  Solanum   ‘SOLANUM DULCAMA+A1:A21RA, FLOS REC., ETHANOL. DECOCTUM’ OR ‘PRESSED JUICE FROM FRESH  POTATO TUBERS’ OR ‘PRESS -SAFT AUS FRISCHEN KARTOFFELN’ OR ‘SOLANUM TUBEROSUM’ OR  ‘POTATO’ OR ‘KARTOFFEL’ OR ‘TOMATO’ OR ‘TOMATE’ OR ‘ALK 626 KARTOFFEL’ OR ‘CIRCULO - INJEEL’:tn OR ‘DERMATODORON ’:tn OR ‘DULCAMARA -HOMACCORD’:tn OR ‘GENU -CYL L’:tn OR  ‘GNAPHALIUM PENTARKAN’:tn OR ‘KARTOFFEL’:tn OR ‘LEDUM HM INJ.’:tn OR ‘LEDUM OLIGOPLEX’:tn  OR ‘NATURREINER PFLANZENSAFT KARTOFFEL’:tn OR ‘POLY -CYL L’:tn OR ‘PRICK -TESTLÖSUNG  KARTOFFEL’:tn OR ‘PRICK -TESTLÖSUNG TOMATE’:tn OR ‘R11’:tn OR ‘R61’:tn OR  ‘RHODODENDRONEEL’:tn OR ‘TOMATE’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   355.  Turpentine   ‘TEREBINTHINA LARICINAA43A6A1:A34AA1:A32’ OR ‘RESINA LARICIS’ OR ‘TEREBINTHINAE  AETHEROLEUM RECTIFICATUM’ OR ‘ESSENTIAL OIL OF TURPENTINE KIND PINUS PINASTER’ OR  ‘TEREBINTHINAE AETHEROLEUM A PINO PINASTRO’ OR ‘ESENŢĂ DE TEREBENTINĂ’ OR ‘OLEJEK  TERPENTYNOWY Z SOSNY NADMORSKIEJ’ OR ‘TEREBENTIN ESSENTIAL OIL’ OR ‘TEREBINTH OIL’ OR  ‘OLEJEK TERPENTYNOWY’ OR ‘TERPENTIJNOLIE’ OR ‘TERPENTĪNEĻĻA’ OR ‘TERPENTINO ETERINIS  ALIEJUS’ OR ‘AETHREOLEUM TEREBINTHINAE’ OR ‘ESSENCE DE TÉRÉBENTHINE’ OR ‘HUILE  ESSENTIELLE DE TÉRÉBENTHINE’ OR ‘TÄRPENTINIÕL’ OR ‘TERPENTINÖL’ OR ‘TURPENTINE’ OR  ‘TERPENTYNA BALSAMICZNA’ OR ‘BOROVICOVÁ SILICA’ OR ‘TREMENTINA’ OR ‘TERPENTIN’ OR  ‘ESENCIA DE TREMENTINA’ OR ‘GEREINIGTES TERPENTINÖL’ OR ‘GEREINIGTES TERPENTINÖL’ OR  ‘ALGIS -SPRAY’:tn OR ‘BÁLSAMO ANALGÉSICO’:tn OR ‘CAPSICAM’:tn OR ‘ELLIMANS UNIVERSAL  MUSCLE RUB LOTION’:tn OR ‘EPICUTANTEST -TROLAB D2322’:tn OR ‘KNEIPP RHEUMABAD’:tn OR  ‘MASAGIL’:tn OR ‘OZOTHINE A LA DIPROPHYLLINE’:tn OR ‘OZOTHINE ADULTES’:tn OR ‘OZOTHINE  ENFANTS’:tn OR ‘OZOTHINE À LA DIPROPHYLLINE ADULTES’:tn OR ‘OZOTHINE À LA DIPROPHYLLINE  ENFANTS’:tn OR ‘REFLEXSPRAY’:tn OR ‘TERPENTĪNA ZIEDE’:tn OR ‘TROLAB’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 339/368   'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   356.  Alternaria   ‘ALTERNARIA’ OR ‘ALTERNARIA ALTERNATA’ ‘ALYOSTAL PRICK ALERGENŲ EKSTRAKTAI’ OR ‘PRICK  TEST SCHIMMELS HAL ALLERGY’ OR ‘PRIKTESTOPLOSSING SCHIMMELS‘ OR ‘PROVOKATIONS - TESTLÖSUNG ALTERNARIA TENUIS (A. ALTERNATA)’ OR ‘ROZTWORY DO TESTÓW PROWOKACYJNYCH  ALTERNARIA TENUIS’ AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti  OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   357.  Chelidonium   ‘CHELIDONIUM’ OR ‘GREATER CELANDINE’ OR ‘CHÉLIDOINE’ OR ‘AP III N’ OR ‘COLCHICUM COMP’ OR  ‘HEPA -LOGES N’ ‘HOMVIOHEPAN TABLETTEN’:tn OR ‘INJECTIO PANKREATIS AMPULLEN’:tn OR ‘LEBER - GALLETROPFEN COSMOCHEMA’:tn OR ‘PFLÜGERPLEX RHODODENDRON 307 H’:tn OR ‘STRUTENES  LAKSTI’:tn OR ‘THYREODORON’:tn OR ‘UGNIAŽOLIŲ ŽOLĖ ŠVF’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp  OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 340/368   hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   358.  Salix   ‘WEIDENRINDEN -TROCKENEXTRAKT’ OR ‘WILLOW BARK’ OR ‘SALICIS CORTEX’ OR ‘SAULE (ÉCORCE  DE)’ OR ‘WEIDENRINDE’ OR ‘SALIX’ OR ‘SALICE’ OR ‘SAULE’ OR ‘SAUCE’ OR ‘SALIX CAPREA’ OR  ‘VĪTOLS’:tn OR ‘WILLOW POLLEN’:tn OR ‘WEIDENPOLLEN’:tn OR ‘DIGESTODORON’:tn OR  ‘RHEUMATEE’:tn OR ‘SALIX/RHUS COMP’:tn OR ‘TAMANYBONSAN’:tn OR ‘WEIDENRINDE’:tn OR  ‘ASSALIX’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   359.  Symphytum   ‘SYMPHYTUM OFFICINALE’ OR ‘COMFREY ROOT LIQUID EXTRACT’ OR ‘ELÁS’ OR ‘FLEXAGIL’:tn OR  ‘FLEXAGILE’:tn OR ‘JOINTCARE COMFRELIEVE’:tn OR ‘KYTTA’:tn OR ‘NATURES BEST  COMFREY’:tn OR  ‘POTTERS COMFREY’:tn OR ‘RHUS -RHEUMA’:tn OR ‘SEVEN’:tn OR ‘SYMPHYTUM’:tn OR  ‘TRAUMAPLANT’:tn OR ‘ZEEL T’:tn OR ‘ZEEL -TABLETTEN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 341/368   contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   360.  Ambrosia   ‘VĒRMEĻLAPU AMBROZIJA’ OR ‘ZWERGAMBROSIA’ OR ‘AMBROSIA’ OR ‘RAGWEED’ OR ‘AMBROSIA’ OR  ‘AMBROISIE’ OR ‘AMBROSIE’ OR ‘AMBROSIAPOLLEN’ OR ‘ALK -PRICK N 302 RAGWEED (AMBROSIA)’  OR ‘LAIS RAGWEED I BEVEZETŐ TERÁPIÁHOZ.’ OR ‘LAIS RAGWEED M FENNTARTÓ TERÁPIÁHOZ.’ OR  ‘PRICK -TESTLÖSUNG SHORT RAGWEED’ OR ‘PROVOKATIONS -TESTLÖSUNG RAGWEED, SHORT’ OR  ‘RAGWEED’:tn OR ‘RHINALLERGY’:tn OR ‘ROZTWORY DO TESTÓW PROWOKACYJNYCH AMBROZJA’:tn  AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR  misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp  OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   361.  Arctostaphylos   ‘ARCTOSTAPHYLOS UVA -URSI (L.) SPRENG FOLIUM’ OR ‘ARCTOSTAPHYLOS UVA -URSI’ OR ‘LIŚĆ  MĄCZNICY LEKARSKIEJ’ OR ‘BEARBERRY EXTRACT’ OR ‘FOLIUM UVA URSI’ OR ‘DRY BEARBERRY LEAF  EXTRACT’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS BÄRENTRAUBENBLÄTTERN’ OR ‘UVA URSI’ OR  ‘ARCTOSTAPHYLOS UVA -URSI LEAF’ OR ‘ARBUTUS BUXIFOLIA LEAF’ OR ‘BEARBERRY LEAF’ OR  ‘MEŠKAUOGIŲ LAPAI’ OR ‘UVAE URSI FOLIUM’ OR ‘BUSSEROLE (FEUILLE DE)’ OR ‘ARCTUVAN’ OR  ‘BLASEN - UND NIERENTEE V’ OR ‘CYSTINOL AKUT’ OR ‘MEŠKAUOGIŲ LAPAI ŠVF’ OR ‘NEFROSEPT’ OR  ‘PFLÜGERPLEX UVA URSI’ OR ‘PHÖNO UREN’ OR ‘POTTERS WATERSHED TABLETS’ OR ‘WATER  BALANCE’ OR ‘WATER RETENTION’ AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 342/368   'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   362.  Cassia   ‘CASSIA’ OR ‘SENNA’ OR ‘SENEPLANT’ OR ‘SÉNÉ’ OR ‘ABFUEHRTEE SOLUBILAX’ OR ‘ARDENNER  KRAÜTERTEE’ OR ‘ARDENSE KRUIDENTHEE’:tn OR ‘ARKOCAPSULAS SEN’:tn OR ‘FARMASUL’:tn OR  ‘FUCA’:tn OR ‘LAX TISANA’:tn OR ‘PRUINA’:tn OR ‘TISANE ARDENNAISE’:tn OR ‘VEROLAX’:tn OR  ‘ADJUST -A’:tn OR ‘ALOSENN’:tn OR ‘ALOSENN PAULA PHARMA CO’:tn OR ‘CIRCANETTEN’:tn OR  ‘EURO -SENNA S.’:tn OR ‘FORSENID’:tn OR ‘HERBESAN’:tn OR ‘LAXETTES’:tn OR ‘PENCLUSIN’:tn OR  ‘PIMURO’:tn OR ‘PURNOSIDE’:tn OR ‘PURSENNIDE’:tn OR ‘SENADE’:tn OR ‘SENADEXIN’:tn OR  ‘SENALEX’:tn OR ‘SENEVACUL’:tn OR ‘SENNAL’:tn OR ‘SENNOCOL’:tn OR ‘SENOKOTXTRA’:tn OR  ‘SENOLAX’:tn OR ‘SOLDOL’:tn OR ‘TAMARINE’:tn OR ‘YODEL -S’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp  OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   363.  Quercus   ‘QUERCUS CORTEX’ OR ‘CORTEX QUERCUS’ OR ‘OAK SAWDUST’ OR ‘KOCSÁNYOS TÖLGY FŰRÉSZPOR’  OR ‘QUERCUS ROBUR L.’ OR ‘OZOLS’ OR ‘OAK’ OR ‘QUERCIA’ OR ‘CHÊNE’ OR ‘ROBLE’ OR ‘EICHE’ OR  ‘OAK MOSS’ OR ‘KONÁRNIK SLIVKOVÝ’ OR ‘MUSGO DE CARVALHO’ OR ‘MCHU DĘBOWEGO’ OR  ‘EIKEMOS’ OR ‘MOUSSE DE CHÊNE’ OR ‘OAK MOSS’ OR ‘QUERCUS RUBRA POLLEN EXTRACT’ OR ‘RED  OAK POLLEN EXTRACT’ OR ‘EXTRAKT AUS EICHENPOLLEN’ OR ‘AESCULUS/PRUNUS COMP.’ OR ‘ALK - PRICK N 138 EICHE’ OR ‘AUFBAUKALK’ OR ‘CALCIUM QUERCUS’ OR ‘CALCIUM QUERCUS’ OR  ‘CORNEA/LEVISTICUM COMP.’ OR ‘EICHE HAL ALLERGY’ OR ‘EICHENRINDE’ OR ‘FRÜHBLÜHENDE  BÄUME MISCHUNG III HAL ALLERGY’ OR ‘KORA DĘBU’ OR ‘LOBELIA COMP.’ OR ‘MESENCHYM/CALCIUM  CARBONICUM COMP’ AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR  'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 343/368   'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   364.  Tilia  ‘TILIAE FLOS’ OR ‘LINDEN FLOWER’ OR ‘LIME FLOWER’ OR ‘TILIAE FLOS’ OR ‘TILLEUL (FLEUR DE)’ OR  ‘TILIA CORDATA’ OR ‘EXTRACTUM TILIAE’ OR ‘TILIA’ OR ‘LIME’ OR ‘LINDEN’ OR ‘TIGLIO’ OR ‘TILLEUL’  OR ‘TILO’:tn OR ‘LINDE’:tn OR ‘TILIAE INFLORESCENTIAE EXTRACTUM SICCUM’:tn OR ‘TILIA  SYLVATICA DRY EXTRACT’:tn OR ‘ISCUCIN TILIAE’:tn OR ‘KWIATOSTAN LIPY’:tn OR  ‘LINDENBLÜTEN’:tn OR ‘LINDENBLÜTEN TEE’:tn OR ‘LIPA FIX’:tn OR ‘LIPOMAL’:tn OR ‘OPIPRAMOL  DIHYDROCHLORIDE ABZ’:tn OR ‘OPIPRAMOL DIHYDROCHLORIDE CT’:tn OR ‘OPIPRAMOL  DIHYDROCHLORIDE RATIOPHARM’:tn OR ‘PRICK -TESTLÖSUNG LINDE’:tn OR ‘PROVOKATIONS - TESTLÖSUNG LINDE’:tn OR ‘ROZTWORY DO TESTÓW PROWOKACYJNYCH LIPA’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   365.  Fagus   ‘BEECH SAWDUST’ OR ‘BÜKK FŰRÉSZPOR’ OR ‘FAGUS SYLVATICA L.’ OR ‘DIŽSKĀBARDIS’ OR ‘BEECH’  OR ‘BUK’ OR ‘RODE BEUK’ OR ‘FAGUS SILVATICA’ OR ‘BUCHE’ OR ‘ROTBUCHE’ OR ‘FAGUS SYLVATICA  POLLEN EXTRACT’ OR ‘ALK -PRICK N 115 BUCHE’ OR ‘BUCHE’ OR ‘PRICK TEST BUCHENPOLLEN’ OR  ‘PRICK -TESTLÖSUNG BUCHE (ROTBUCHE)’ OR ‘PROVOKATIONS -TESTLÖSUNG BUCHE’ OR ‘ROZTWORY  DO TESTÓW PROWOKACYJNYCH BUK’ AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 344/368   'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   366.  Juglans   ‘JUGLANS REGIA L.’ OR ‘VALRIEKSTS’ OR ‘JUGLANS REGIA’ OR ‘WALNUT’ OR ‘NOCE’ OR ‘NOYER’ OR  ‘NOGAL’ OR ‘WALNUT -TREE’ OR ‘JUGLANS CINEREA’ OR ‘BUTTERNUT’:tn OR ‘CARPELLUM MALI  COMP.’:tn OR ‘PFLÜGERPLEX LEPTANDRA’:tn OR ‘PRICK -TESTLÖSUNG WALNUSS’:tn OR ‘R60’:tn OR  ‘REXORUBIA’:tn OR ‘TUMOGLIN H’:tn OR ‘TUMOGLIN TABLETTEN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp  OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   367.  Niaouli   ‘NIAOULI ESSENTIAL OIL’ OR ‘GOMENOL’:tn OR ‘NIAOULI OIL’:tn OR ‘OLIO NIAOULI’:tn OR ‘HUILE  ESSENTIELLE DE NIAOULI’:tn OR ‘GOMENOL’:tn OR ‘GOMENOL SOLUBLE’:tn OR ‘HUILE  GOMENOLEE’:tn OR ‘NIAOULI AFOM’:tn OR ‘NIAOULI ESSENZA’:tn OR ‘VASELINE GOMENOLEE’:tn AND  ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti  OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 345/368   drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   368.  Parietaria   ‘PARIETARIA OFFICINALIS L.’ OR ‘PARIETARIA OFFICINALIS L.’ OR ‘PARIETARIA JUDAICA L.’ OR  ‘PARIETARIA JUDAICA L.’ OR ‘WALL PELLITORY’ OR ‘PARIÉTAIRE OFFICINALE’ OR ‘PARIETARIA  OFFICINALIS’ OR ‘PARIETARIA SP. POLLEN’ OR ‘GLASKRUID POLLEN’ OR ‘PARIETARIA JUDAICA  POLLEN EXTRACT’ OR ‘ALK -PRICK SQ 360 GLASKRAUT’:tn OR ‘ALLERGOVIT GLASKRAUT’:tn OR  ‘PRICK -TESTLÖSUNG GLASKRAUT’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   369.  Dactylis   ‘DACTYLIS GLOMERATA L.’ OR ‘KAMOLZĀLE’ OR ‘DACTYLIS GLOMERATA’ OR ‘COCKSFOOT’ OR  ‘MAZZOLINA’ OR ‘(WIESEN) KNÄUELGRAS’ OR ‘KNÄUELGRAS’ OR ‘DACTYLIS GLOMERATA POLLEN’ OR  ‘COCKSFOOT POLLEN’ OR ‘KROPAARPOLLEN’ OR ‘KROPHAAR POLLEN’ OR ‘DACTYLIS GLOMERATA  POLLEN EXTRACT’ OR ‘COCKSFOOT POLLEN EXTRACT’ OR ‘EXTRAKT AUS KNÄUELGRASPOLLEN’ OR  ‘PRICK -TESTLÖSUNG KNÄUELGRAS, GEMEINES’ OR ‘SOLUPRICK SQ 214 KOIRANHEINÄ (DACTYLIS  GLOMERATA) SIITEPÖLYT’:tn OR ‘SOLUPRICK SQ HUNDÄXING’:tn OR ‘ORALAIR 100 IR & 300 IR’:tn  AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR  misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp  OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 346/368   drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   370.  Solidaginis   ‘SOLIDAGINIS HERBA’ OR ‘SOLIDAGO HERBA’ OR ‘ZIELE NAWŁOCI’ OR ‘ZIELE NAWLOCI’ OR  ‘SOLIDAGINIS HERBA’ OR ‘ECHTES GOLDRUTENKRAUT, FRISCHPFLANZENAUSZUG’ OR ‘SOLIDAGINIS  EXTRACT’ OR ‘EUROPEAN GOLDENROD DRY EXTRACT’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS ECHTEM  GOLDRUTENKRAUT’ OR ‘GOLDENROD REAL -DRIED EXTRACT’ OR ‘CYSTINOL LONG’:tn OR ‘CYSTINOL  N’:tn OR ‘GOLDRUTENKRAUT (RIESEN -)’:tn OR ‘NEPHROLITH MONO’:tn OR ‘PHYTODOLOR’:tn OR  ‘POLBAX  NOVO’:tn OR ‘REUMACOR’:tn OR ‘UROCUR’:tn OR ‘UROFORT’:tn OR ‘UROL FLUX BRAUSE’:tn  OR ‘UROL FLUX KAPSELN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   371.  Vaccinium   ‘BILBERRY FRUIT, DRIED’ OR ‘MYRTILLI FRUCTUS SICCUS’ OR ‘MYRTILLE (FRUIT SEC DE)’ OR  ‘ANTHOCYANOSIDIC EXTRACT OF VACCINIUM MYRTILLUS’ OR ‘ANTHOCYANOSIDIC EXTRACT OF  BILBERRY’ OR ‘EXTRACT ANTOCIANOZIDIC DIN FRUCTE DE VACCINIUM MYRTILLUS’ OR ‘EXTRAIT  ANTHOCYANOSIDIQUE DE VACCINIUM MYRTILLUS’ OR ‘EXTRAIT ANTHOCYANOSIDIQUE DE MYRTILLE’  OR ‘MYRTILLUS’:tn OR ‘BILBERRY’:tn OR ‘MYRTLE’:tn OR ‘BLUEBERRY’:tn OR ‘VACCINIUM  MACROCARPOS AITON, SYN. OXYCOCCUS MACROCARPOS (AITON) PERS., FRUCTUS’:tn OR ‘SAFT AF  STORFRUGTET TRANEBÆR’:tn OR ‘DRY HYDROALCOHOLIC EXTRACT OF VACCINIUM MYRTILLUS’:tn  OR ‘MIRTILLO NERO ESTRATTO SECCO IDROALCOLICO’:tn OR ‘MIRTILLO NERO ESTRATTO SECCO  IDROALCOLICO’:tn OR ‘DIFRAREL’:tn OR ‘HEIDELBEEREN’:tn OR ‘MIRTILENE’:tn OR ‘MIRTILENE  FORTE’:tn OR ‘OWOC BORÓWKI CZERNICY’:tn OR ‘TEGENS’:tn OR ‘UBICHINON COMPOSITUM’:tn OR  ‘VITACARE VITABUTIN’:tn OR ‘DIFRAREL’:tn OR ‘MYRTAVEN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 347/368   overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   372.  Vitis  ‘VITIS VINIFERA, FOLIUM SICC.’ OR ‘VITIS VINIFERAE FOLII EXTRACTUM AQUOSUM SICCUM (4 –6:1)’  OR ‘SUCHÝ VÝŤAŽOK Z LISTOV ČERVENÉHO VINIČA HROZNORODÉHO (4 -6:1)’ OR  ‘VÖRÖSSZŐLŐLEVÉL SZÁRAZ KIVONATA [4 -6:1]’ OR ‘GRAPEVINE LEAF DRY EXTRACT (DER 4 -6:1);  EXTRACTION SOLVENT: WATER’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS ROTEM WEINLAUB 4 -6:1’ OR  ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS ROTE WEINREBENBLÄTTERN (4 -6:1), AUSZUGSMITTEL: WASSER’ OR  ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS ROTEN WEINREBENBLÄTTERN (4 -6:1)’ OR ‘VITIS VINIFERAE FOLII  EXTRACTUM AQUOSUM SICCUM (4 –6:1)’ OR ‘GRAPE’:tn OR ‘VITIS VINIFERA (GRAPE)’:tn OR  ‘TRAUBEN’:tn OR ‘ANTISTAX’:tn OR ‘DIAVITIS’:tn OR ‘DIAWEINLAUB’:tn OR ‘HEPATODORON’:tn OR  ‘PRICK -TESTLÖSUNG WEINTRAUBE’:tn OR ‘TRAUBEN’:tn OR ‘VENOPROTECR’:tn OR ‘VENOPROTECT’:tn  OR ‘VITIS COMP.’:tn OR ‘ANTISTAX’:tn OR ‘HEPATODORON’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   373.  Camellia   ‘CAMELLIA SINENSIS (GREEN TEA) LEAF EXTRACT’ OR ‘GREEN TEA EXTRACT’ OR ‘CAMELLIA  SINENSIS’ OR ‘TEA LEAF’ OR ‘ADESLIM’:tn OR ‘CATEPHEN’:tn OR ‘VEREGEN’:tn OR ‘VEREGREEN’:tn OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 348/368   ‘VEREGENb’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   374.  Cascara   ‘CASCARA’ OR ‘RHAMNUS PURSHIANUS’ OR ‘RHAMNUS PURSHIANA’ OR ‘DIS CINIL COMPLEX’ OR  ‘DOCE ALIVIO’:tn OR ‘DRAGEES VEGETALES REX’:tn OR ‘LAXAFYTOL’:tn OR ‘LEGAPAS’:tn OR  ‘PERISTALTINE’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR  'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   375.  Fraxinus   ‘FRAXINUS EXCELSIOR L.’ OR ‘OSIS’ OR ‘FRAXINUS EXCELSIOR’ OR ‘FRAXINUS EXCELSIOR POLLEN  EXTRACT’ OR ‘ASH POLLEN EXTRACT’ OR ‘EXTRAKT AUS ESCHENPOLLEN’ OR ‘ALK 117 FRAXINUS  EXCELSIOR’ OR ‘ALK -PRICK N 117 ESCHE’ OR ‘ESCHE HAL ALLERGY’ OR ‘FRÜHBLÜHENDE BÄUME  MISCHUNG II HAL ALLERGY’ AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 349/368   terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   376.  Hordeum   ‘ÁRPACUKOR’ OR ‘HORDEUM VULGARE L.’ OR ‘MIEŽI’ OR ‘HORDEUM VULGARE’ OR ‘JĘCZMIEŃ’ OR  ‘GERST’ OR ‘ORZO’ OR ‘ORGE’ OR ‘CEBADA’ OR ‘BARLEY’ OR ‘GERSTE’ OR ‘HORDEUM VULGARE  POLLEN EXTRACT’ OR ‘EXTRAKT AUS GERSTENPOLLEN’ OR ‘ALK -PRICK N 782 GERSTENMEHL’ OR  ‘GERSTE HAL ALLERGY’ OR ‘PRICK -TESTLÖSUNG GERSTE’ OR ‘PROVOKATIONS -TESTLÖSUNG  GERSTE’:tn OR ‘ROZTWORY DO TESTÓW PROWOKACYJNYCH JĘCZMIEŃ’:tn OR ‘ROZTWORY DO  TESTÓW PROWOKACYJNYCH KLEIK JĘCZMIENNY’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   377.  Rhamnus   ‘RHAMNUS FRANGULA L. CORTEX’ OR ‘RHAMNUS PURSHIANA DC. BARK’ OR ‘CORTEZA DE RHAMNUS  PURSHIANUS D.C. (CÁSCARA SAGRADA)’ OR ‘RHAMNUS PURSHIANA DC. BARK DRY EXTRACT’ OR  ‘CASCARA DRY HYDROALCOHOLIC EXTRACT, STANDARDISED’ OR ‘CASCARA (EXTRAIT  HYDROALCOOLIQUE SEC TITRÉ DE)’ OR ‘CASCARA DRY EXTRACT’ OR ‘CASCARAE EXTRACTUM  SICCUM’ OR ‘CASCARA ESTRATTO SECCO’ OR ‘RHAMNUS FRANGULA’ OR ‘BOURDAINE’:tn OR  ‘CASCARA EXTRACT’:tn OR ‘RHAMNUS PURSHIANA, EXT.’:tn OR ‘FRANGULA PURSHIANA BARK’:tn OR  ‘CASCARA BARK’:tn OR ‘RHAMNUS PURSHIANA BARK’:tn OR ‘CÁSCARA SAGRADA (CASCA, EXTRACTO  SECO)’:tn OR ‘CASCARA POWDER’:tn OR ‘CASCARAE EXTRACTUM FLUIDUM’:tn OR ‘DRAGEES FUCA’:tn  OR ‘FAVE DE FUCA’:tn OR ‘LAXOR’:tn OR ‘LINEASUL’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 350/368   overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   378.  Syzygium   ‘CLOVE’ OR ‘SZEGFŰSZEG’ OR ‘GEWÜRZNELKE’ OR ‘GEWÜRZNELKEN’ OR ‘CLOVE OIL’ OR ‘CLOVE BUD  OIL’ OR ‘CARYOPHYLLI OLEUM’ OR ‘CLOVE ESSENTIAL OIL’ OR ‘KRYDDNEJLIKOLJA’ OR ‘OLEJEK  GOŹDZIKOWY’ OR ‘GVAZDIKĖLIŲ ETERINIO ALIEJAUS’ OR ‘HUILE ESSENTIELLE DE GIROFLE’ OR  ‘NELKENÖL’:tn OR ‘DENTOGEN’:tn OR ‘EPICUTANTEST -TROLAB D1308’:tn OR ‘GLYCOTANA’:tn OR  ‘TIGER BALM RED’:tn OR ‘TIGER BALM WHITE’:tn OR ‘TROLAB E1308’:tn OR ‘ACTIVASE’:tn AND  ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti  OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   379.  Veratrum   ‘VERATRI TINCTURA’ OR ‘VERATRES TINKTŪRA’ OR ‘BERBERIS -HOMACCORD’:tn OR ‘DIARRHEEL S’:tn  OR ‘DIARRHEEL SN’:tn OR ‘GASTROKIND’:tn OR ‘KINDIGEST’:tn OR ‘MOMORDICA COMPOSITUM N’:tn  OR ‘PFLÜGERPLEX BISMUTUM’:tn OR ‘PFLÜGERPLEX CUPRUM’:tn OR ‘PFLÜGERPLEX GRATIOLA’:tn OR  ‘SKORODIT KREISLAUF’:tn OR ‘TONGINAL’:tn OR ‘VERATRUM ALBUM D3’:tn OR ‘VERATRUM ALBUM,  ETHANOL. DECOCTUM’:tn OR ‘VERATRUM E RADICE’:tn OR ‘VERATRUM PENTARKAN S’:tn OR  ‘ČEMERIŅU ŪDENS’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti  OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 351/368   misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   380.  Verbascum   ‘VERBASCI FLOS’ OR ‘MULLEIN FLOWER’ OR ‘VERBASCI FLOS’ OR ‘BOUILLON BLANC (FLEUR DE)’ OR  ‘VERBASCUM FLOWER’ OR ‘KÖNIGSKERZENBLÜTE’ OR ‘ACONITUM’ OR ‘DOLO’ OR ‘GLOBULI GEGEN  HEISERKEIT’ OR ‘HEWALLERGIA’:tn OR ‘NEURALGIETABLETTEN N COSMOCHEMA’:tn OR  ‘NEURALGIETROPFEN CM COSMOCHEMA’:tn OR ‘PFLÜGERPLEX RHUS TOX’:tn OR ‘R70’:tn OR  ‘TROPFEN GEGEN HEISERKEIT’:tn OR ‘VERBASCUM COMP’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   381.  Aloe  ‘WYCIĄG SUCHY Z ALOESU STANDARYZOWANY’ OR ‘SUCHY WYCIĄGU Z ALONY STANDARYZOWANY’  OR ‘EXTRACTUM ALOES AQ. SICCUM’ OR ‘ALOÈS EXTRAIT SEC TITRÉ D’ OR ‘ALOE VERA EXTRACT’ OR  ‘WYSUSZONY, SPROSZKOWANY SOK Z LIŚCI ALOESU’ OR ‘CAPE ALOE’:tn OR ‘ALOE’:tn OR ‘ALOES’:tn  OR ‘ALOA’:tn OR ‘ALOES’:tn OR ‘ALOE’:tn OR ‘ALAX’:tn OR ‘BOLDALOIN’:tn OR ‘BOLDOVERA’:tn OR  ‘OPOBYL’:tn OR ‘POTTER S CLEANSING HERB’:tn OR ‘PÍLDORAS ZENINAS’:tn OR ‘SANGUISORBIS’:tn  AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR  misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 352/368   OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   382.  Apium   ‘APIUM GRAVEOLENS’ OR ‘APIUM GRAVEOLENS VAR. DULCE ROOT’ OR ‘CELERY ROOT’ OR ‘SELER’:tn  OR ‘SELLERIEWORTEL’:tn OR ‘SELLERIEWURZEL’:tn OR ‘CELERY’:tn OR ‘SELLERIE’:tn OR ‘CELERY  LEAF’:tn OR ‘ALK -PRICK N 650 SELLERIE’:tn OR ‘PRICK -TESTLÖSUNG SELLERIEWURZEL’:tn OR  ‘SELLERIE’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   383.  Curcuma   ‘CURCUMA ZEDOARIA’ OR ‘ZITWERWURZEL’ OR ‘ZEDOARY’ OR ‘CURCUMA XANTHORRHIZA DRY  EXTRACT’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS JAVANISCHER GELBWURZ’ OR ‘CURCUMA RHIZOME DRY  EXTRACT’ OR ‘TROCKENEXTRAKT AUS CURCUMAWURZELSTOCK’ OR ‘CURCUMAE RADICIS PIGMENTA’  OR ‘CURCUMA LONGA RHIZOMA DRY EXTRACT, EXTRACTION SOLVENT: ETHANOL’ OR  ‘CURCUMAWURZELSTOCK -TROCKENEXTRAKT, AUSZUGSMITTEL: ETHANOL 96 % (V/V)’ OR  ‘CHOLEODORON’:tn OR ‘CURCU’:tn OR ‘CURCUMEN’:tn OR ‘EXTRACTO DE CURCUMA’:tn OR  ‘HEPATOUM’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 353/368   'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   384.  Pelagonium   ‘PELARGONII SIDOIDES EXTRACTUM FLUIDUM’ OR ‘EXTRAKTU Z KOREŇA PELARGONIUM SIDOIDES’  OR ‘EXTRACT DE RĂDĂCINĂ DE PELARGONIUM SIDOIDES’ OR ‘AUSZUG AUS PELARGONIUM - SIDOIDES -WURZELN’ OR ‘AUSZUG AUS PELARGONIUM -SIDOIDES -WURZELN, GETROCKNET’ OR  ‘GERANIUM ESSENTIAL OIL’ OR ‘GERANIUM OIL’ OR ‘GERANII AETHEROLEUM’ OR ‘HUILE ESSENTIELLE  DE GERANIUM’ OR ‘ALFAKUT’:tn OR ‘DIAPELARGO’:tn OR ‘EPB -LIQUIDUM’:tn OR ‘EPC -LIQUIDUM’:tn  OR ‘EPD -LIQUIDUM’:tn OR ‘EPE -LIQUIDUM’:tn OR ‘KALOBA’:tn OR ‘PELARGONIUM’:tn OR ‘PELASYA  BEI ERKÄLTUNGSKRANKHEITEN’:tn OR ‘PELOID’:tn OR ‘PELOIDE’:tn OR ‘POTTER S PELARGONIUM  COLD RELIEF’:tn OR ‘UMCKALOABO’:tn OR ‘UMCKALOR’:tn OR ‘KALOBA’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   385.  Strophantus   ‘STROPHANTUS’ OR ‘OLEUM STROPHANTHI KOMBE’ OR ‘AURUM D10 / STROPHANTHUS KOMBE D6 AA’  OR ‘AURUM/STROPHANTHUS’ OR ‘COR’ OR ‘GOLD HERZTABLETTEN’ OR ‘LAKRIMA’ OR ‘OLEUM  STROPHANTHI’ OR ‘STROPHANTHUS’ OR ‘TABLETTEN GEGEN LAMPENFIEBER’ AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 354/368   terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   386.  Anacardium   ‘ANACARDIUM ORIENTALE’ OR ‘ASTOMERA’ OR ‘CEFABENE CISTUS KOMPLEX’ OR ‘CISTUS  CANADENSIS N OLIGOPLEX’ OR ‘INJECTIO GASTRODUODENALIS AMPULLEN’ OR ‘NUX VOMICA  PENTARKAN’ OR ‘PFLÜGERPLEX CROCUS’ AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   387.  Centella   ‘CENTELLA ASIATICA’ OR ‘CENTELLA ASIATICA EXTRACT’ OR ‘EXTRACTO DE CENTELLA ASIATICA’ OR  ‘BECEVITOL’:tn OR ‘BLASTOESTIMULINA’:tn OR ‘MADECASSOL’:tn OR ‘MADÉCASSOL’:tn OR  ‘NARANOCUT COMP.’:tn OR ‘PFLÜGERPLEX HELONIAS’:tn OR ‘MADECASSOL’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 355/368   hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim     388.  Erysimum   ‘ERYSIMUM’ OR ‘AMMONIUM BROMATUM OLIGOPLEX’ OR ‘CLARIX ’:tn OR  ‘EUPHON ’:tn OR  ‘POLERY  ENFANTS’ :tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   389.  Prunus   ‘ALK 764 MANDEL’ OR ‘ALK -PRICK N 613 PFIRSICH’ OR ‘ALK -PRICK N 629 KIRSCHE’ OR ‘AQUA MARIS  D3 / PRUNUS SPINOSA, SUMMITATES D5 AA’:tn OR ‘AURUM NATURALE D10 / PRUNUS SPINOSA,  SUMMITATES D5 AA’:tn OR ‘AURUM/PRUNUS’:tn OR ‘NASENBALSAM FÜR KINDER’:tn OR ‘PRUNIER  DAFRIQUE’:tn OR ‘PRUNUS’:tn OR ‘PRUNUSEISEN’:tn OR ‘PULMO -CYL L’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 356/368   OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   390.  Ulmus   ‘ULMUS’ OR ‘ELM’:tn OR ‘WIĄZ’:tn OR ‘OLM’:tn OR ‘OLMO’:tn OR ‘ORME’:tn OR ‘OLMO’:tn OR ‘ULME’:tn  OR ‘GOBA’:tn OR ‘SLIPPERY ELM BARK’:tn OR ‘POTTERS SLIPPERY ELM INDIGESTION RELIEF’:tn OR  ‘PRICK -TESTLÖSUNG ULME’:tn OR ‘PROVOKATIONS -TESTLÖSUNG ULME’:tn OR ‘RHEUMA -PASC  LIQUIDUM’:tn OR ‘ROZTWORY DO TESTÓW PROWOKACYJNYCH WIĄZ’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   391.  Viola   ‘VIOLA ARVENSIS’ OR ‘WILD PANSY’ OR ‘PENSÉE SAUVAGE’ OR ‘STIEFMÜTTERCHENKRAUT’ OR  ‘VIOLAE TRICOLORIS HERBA’ OR ‘ZIELE FIOŁKA TRÓJBARWNEGO’ OR ‘BRATEK FIX’:tn OR  ‘CUTACALMI’:tn OR ‘KATTWIDERM’:tn OR ‘OTOFREN’:tn OR ‘VIOLA OLIGOPLEX’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 357/368   392.  Chenopodium   ‘CHENOPODIUM ALBUM’ OR ‘FARINACCIO’ OR ‘LAMBS QUARTERS’ OR ‘FAT HEN’ OR ‘GANSEFUSS’ OR  ‘CHENOPODIUM ALBUM L.’ OR ‘BALANDA’ OR ‘CHENOPODIUM ALBUM POLLEN EXTRACT’ OR ‘EXTRAKT  AUS GÄNSEFUSSPOLLEN’ OR ‘ALK -PRICK N 322 GÄNSEFUSS’ AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   393.  Citronella   ‘CITRONELLAE AETHEROLEUM’ OR ‘CITRONELLA OIL’ OR ‘CITRONELOVÁ SILICA’ OR ‘ESSÊNCIA DE  CITRONELLA’ OR ‘OLEJEK CYTRONELOWY’ OR ‘OLEJEK ETERYCZNY CYTRONELOWY’ OR ‘CITRONELLAS  EĻĻA’ OR ‘CITRINŽOLIŲ ETERINIO ALIEJAUS’ OR ‘CITRINŽOLIŲ ETERINIS ALIEJUS’ OR  ‘CITRONELLAOLAJ’ OR ‘LÕHNAVA SIDRUNHEINA ÕLI’ OR ‘CITRONELLÖL’ OR ‘CITRONELOVÁ SILICE’ OR  ‘EPICUTANTEST -TROLAB’ OR ‘KNEIPP BERUHIGUNGSBAD’ OR ‘MEDIZINISCHER BADEZUSATZ  ENTSPANNUNG’ OR ‘MEKOSTEST’ OR ‘OLEUM AETHEREUM MELISSAE INDICUM’ OR ‘TROLAB’ OR ‘TRUE  TEST’ OR ‘TRUE TEST’ AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti  OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 358/368   394.  Daucus   ‘DAUCUS CAROTA’ OR ‘CARROT’ OR ‘KAROTTE’ OR ‘WILD CARROT’ OR ‘WILD CARROT LIQUID  EXTRACT’ OR ‘ALK 620 GULEROD’ OR ‘ALK -PRICK N 620 KAROTTE’ OR ‘MOHRRÜBE’ OR ‘POTTERS  WATERSHED PLUS MIXTURE’ AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   395.  Garlic   ‘GARLIC POWDER’ OR ‘ALLIUM SATIVUM (POWDER)’ OR ‘ĶIPLOKU PULVERIS’ OR ‘AIL (POUDRE D)’ OR  ‘KNOBLAUCHZWIEBELPULVER’ OR ‘HVIDLØGSPULVER’ OR ‘GARLIC OIL’ OR ‘ALLIUM SATIVUM’ OR  ‘GARLIC’ OR ‘ALLIOMINT’ OR ‘FOKHAGYMAGYÖNGY DRAZSÉ’ OR ‘KWAI’:tn OR ‘TABLETKI Z CZOSNKU  LABOFARM’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp  OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast  feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR  'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR  'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp  OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR  'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   396.  Ginger   ‘GINGER, AQUEOUS LIQUID EXTRACT’ OR ‘WÄSSRIGER EXTRAKT AUS INGWERWURZELSTOCK’ OR  ‘ZINGIBERIS RADIX’ OR ‘INGVERA SAKNEŅI’ OR ‘GYÖMBÉR GYÖKÉRTÖRZS’ OR ‘ZINGIBERIS RADIX’  OR ‘GINGER’ OR ‘RHIZOMA ZINGIBERAE’ OR ‘KORENIKE PRAVEGA INGVERJA’ OR ‘IMBIERŲ     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 359/368   ŠAKNIASTIEBIŲ’ OR ‘INGWERWURZELSTOCK’ OR ‘ZINGIBER OFFICINALE (GINGER) ROOT’ OR  ‘ZINGIBERIS EXTRACT’ OR ‘INGVERA EKSTRAKTS’ OR ‘BITTER’ OR ‘ENZIAN’ OR ‘HRI GINGER TABLETS’  OR ‘HRI TRAVEL AND DIGESTION RELIEF TABLETS’ OR ‘INGWER’ OR ‘MARASLAVIN’ OR ‘ZINTONA’ OR  ‘BUKURYOINGOHANGEKOBOKUTO’ OR ‘GOSHAKUSAN’ AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   397.  Origanum   ‘ORIGANUM’ OR ‘MAJORANA, HERBA SICC., ETHANOL. EXTR.’ OR ‘MAJORANA, HERBA SICC.  ETHANOL./OL. SESAMI EXTR.’ OR ‘MAJORANA, FRUCTUS SICC., ETHANOL. DECOCTUM’ OR  ‘MAJORANA, HERBA SICC., ETHANOL. INFUSUM’ OR ‘ORIGANUM VULGARE’ OR ‘MAJORANAE HERBAE  EXTRACTUM’ OR ‘EKSTRAKT Z ZIELA MAJERANKU’ OR ‘MAJORANAE HERBA’ OR ‘ZIELE MAJERANKU’ OR  ‘HORMEEL’ OR ‘HORMEEL SN’ OR ‘MAŚĆ MAJERANKOWA’ AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   398.  Rhubarb   ‘RHUBARB’ OR ‘RHUBARBE’ OR ‘RHUBARB EXTRACT’ OR ‘RABARBARO ESTRATTO’ OR ‘FAM -LAX’ OR  ‘FEMI -LOGES’ OR ‘PHYTO STROL’ OR ‘PYRALVEX’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 360/368   adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   399.  Althaea   ‘ALTHAEA ’ OR ‘ALTHAEAE RADIX, EXTRACTUM’ OR ‘EXTRACT OF MARSHMALLOW ROOT’ OR ‘EXTRAKT  AUS EIBISCHWURZEL’ OR ‘ALTHAEA EXTRACT’ OR ‘ESTRATTO ALTEA’ OR ‘ALTHAEA OFFICINALIS  ROOT’ OR ‘ALTHAEAE RADICIS MACERATIO’ OR ‘MACERAT Z KORZENIA PRAWOŚLAZU’ OR  ‘PHYTOHUSTIL’ OR ‘SEDEMOL’ OR ‘SULFA -SEDEMOL’ OR ‘SYROP PRAWOŚLAZOWY’ AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   400.  Anise   ‘ANISE’ OR ‘ANISEED DRY EXTRACT (4,5 -6,0:1), 1ST EXTRACTION LIQUID: ETHANOL 70 % V/V, 2ND  EXTRACTION LIQUID: ETHANOL 20 % V/V’ OR ‘ANIS -TROCKENEXTRAKT (4,5 -6,0:1), 1.  AUSZUGSMITTEL: ETHANOL 70 % (V/V), 2. AUSZUGSMITTEL: ETHANOL 20 % (V/V)’ OR ‘ANISE OIL’  OR ‘ANISE ESSENTIAL OIL’ OR ‘ANISEED ESSENTIAL OIL’ OR ‘ANISEED OIL’ OR ‘ANISI ETHEROLEUM’  OR ‘ANISI AETHEROLEUM’ OR ‘ANÍZOVÁ SILICA’ OR ‘ULEI DE ANASON’ OR ‘ÓLEO DE ANIS’ OR  ‘OLEJEK ANYŻOWY’ OR ‘OLEJEK ANYŻKOWY’ OR ‘ANISOLJE’ OR ‘STERANIJSOLIE’ OR ‘ANIJSOLIE’ OR  ‘ANĪSA EĻĻA’ OR ‘ANYŽIŲ ALIEJUS’ OR ‘ANYŽIŲ ETERINIO ALIEJAUS’ OR ‘ANIŠEVO ETERIČNO ULJE’ OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 361/368   ‘HUILE ESSENTIELLE DANIS’ OR ‘HUILE DANIS’ OR ‘ANISÖLJY’ OR ‘ANIISIÕLI’ OR ‘AETHEROLEUM  ANISI’ OR ‘ANISÖL’ OR ‘ANISOEL’ OR ‘ANÝZOVÁ SILICE’ OR ‘ANISI AETHEROLEUM’ OR ‘ANIZYN’:tn OR  ‘FLECHTENHONIG’ OR ‘HALS - UND RACHEN LUTSCHPASTILLEN’ AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   401.  Cucurbita   ‘CUCURBITA’ OR ‘PUMPKIN SEED, POWDERED’ OR ‘KÜRBISSAMENPULVER’ OR ‘KÜRBISSAMEN -PULVER’  OR ‘PUMPKIN SEED’ OR ‘PUMPKIN OIL’ OR ‘CUCURBITA PEPO SEED OIL’ OR ‘KÜRBISSAMENÖL’ OR  ‘KÜRBISSAMENÖL’ OR ‘CUCURBITA PEPO (PUMPKIN) SEED EXTRACT’ OR ‘AUFBAUKALK 1 MORGENS’  OR ‘GRANU FINK PROSTA FORTE’:tn OR ‘PEPONEN AKTÍV’:tn OR ‘VESIHERB’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   402.  Orthosiphon   ‘ORTHOSIPHON’ OR ‘ORTHOSIPHONIS FOLII EXTRACTUM AQUOSUM SICCUM’ OR ‘ORTHOSIPHON  LEAVES DRY AQUEOUS EXTRACT’ OR ‘AQUALIBRA’ OR ‘LEPISOR’ OR ‘ORTHOSIPHONBLÄTTER  INDISCHER NIERENTEE FIDES’ OR ‘UROSIPHON’ AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 362/368   overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   403.  Pygeum   ‘PYGEUM’ OR ‘PRUNI AFRICANAE CORTEX’ OR ‘PRUNIER DAFRIQUE (ÉCORCE DE)’ OR ‘PYGEUM  AFRICANUM’ OR ‘ACUBIRÓN’ OR ‘FOUDARIL’ OR ‘PIGENIL’ OR ‘TADENAN’ OR ‘TADENAN’ OR ‘TRIANOL’  AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti  OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR  misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp  OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   404.  Justicia   ‘JUSTICIA’ OR ‘KLOSTERFRAU ALLERGIN’ OR ‘PFLÜGERPLEX CEPA 166 H’ OR ‘SYXYL’ AND ('adverse  drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR  'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 363/368   pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   405.  Lavandula   ‘LAVANDULA’ OR ‘LAVANDULAE’ OR ‘LAVENDER FLOWER’ OR ‘LAVANDULAE FLOS’ OR ‘LAVANDE  (FLEUR DE)’ OR ‘LAVENDER OIL’ OR ‘LAVENDELÖL’ OR ‘LEVANDER OIL’ OR ‘LAVENDER ESSENTIAL OIL’  OR ‘OLEUM LAVANDULAE’ OR ‘LAVANDER ESSENTIAL OIL’ OR ‘LAVANDULAE AETHEROLEUM’ OR ‘ÓLEO  ESSENCIAL DE ALFAZEMA’ OR ‘OLEJEK LAWENDOWY’ OR ‘LAVENDELVLUGOLIE’ OR ‘LAVANDAS EĻĻA’  OR ‘LEVANDŲ ETERINIS ALIEJUS’ OR ‘LEVANDŲ ETERINIO ALIEJAUS’ OR ‘LEVANDU ETERINIS ALIEJUS’  OR ‘LAVANDA ESSENZA’ OR ‘HUILE ESSENTIELLE DE LAVANDE’ OR ‘LAVENDLIÕLI’ OR ‘ACEITE DE  LAVANDA’ OR ‘LAVENDELÖL’ OR ‘LAVANDULA’ OR ‘LAVENDELBLÜTEN’ OR ‘LAVENDELÖL’ AND ('adverse  drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR  'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR  pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR  ('milk human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR  'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication  error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label  drug use'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR  immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR  'intoxication'/exp OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR  'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   406.  Oenothera   ‘OENOTHERA’ OR ‘EVENING PRIMROSE OIL’ OR ‘ONAGRA’:tn OR ‘NACHTKERZENSAMENÖL’:tn OR  ‘EPOGAM’:tn OR ‘LINOLA GAMMA’:tn OR ‘NEOBONSEN’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR  adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR  'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 364/368   'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   407.  Ruscus   ‘RUSCUS’  OR ‘RUSCOGENIN’ OR ‘RUSCOGENINA’ OR ‘RUSCOGENINĂ’ OR ‘RUSCOGENINA’ OR ‘CYCLO  3’ OR ‘RUSCOROID’:tn OR ‘RUSKOREX’:tn OR ‘FABROVEN’:tn OR ‘PHLEBODRIL’:tn AND ('adverse drug  reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk  OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug  abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR  'pregnancy complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim   408.  Angelica   ‘ANGELICA ROOT’ OR ‘ANGELICAE RADIX’ OR ‘ANGELIKOVÝ KOREŇ’ OR ‘VAISTINIŲ ŠVENTAGARŠVIŲ  ŠAKNŲ’ OR ‘ANGELICAE RADIX’ OR ‘ANGÉLIQUE (RACINE D)’ OR ‘ANGELIKAWURZEL’ OR ‘ANGELICAE’  OF ‘ANGELIC’ OR ‘ARCHANGELICA’:tn AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim      European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 365/368   409.  Illicium   ‘ILLICIUM VERUM’ OR ‘STAR ANISE’ OR ‘STERNANIS’ OR ‘BADIANE’ OR ‘ILLICIUM VERUM’ OR ‘ANISI  STELLATI AETHEROLEUM’ OR ‘ETERIČNO OLJE ZVEZDASTEGA JANEŽA’ OR ‘ANISI STELLATI  AETHEROLEUM’ OR ‘OLEJEK Z ANYŻU GWIAŹDZISTEGO’ OR ‘ZVAIGŽŅVEIDA ANĪSA EĻĻA’ OR  ‘ŽVAIGŽDANYŽIŲ ETERINIS ALIEJUS’ OR ‘CSILLAGÁNIZS OLAJ’ OR ‘CSILLAGÁNIZS TERMÉSOLAJ’ OR  ‘ETERIČNO ULJE ZVJEZDASTOG ANISA’ OR ‘HUILE ESSENTIELLE DE BADIANE’ OR ‘TÄHTIANISÖLJY’ OR  ‘TÄHTANIISIÕLI’ OR ‘STERNANISÖL’ OR ‘BADVÁNOVÁ SILICE’ OR ‘ANISÖL ERKÄLTUNGSKAPSELN’ OR  ‘DR. THEISS HUSTENTROPFEN’ OR ‘OGBB’ AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR  'side effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug overdose'/exp OR  overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance  abuse'/exp OR abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk human'/exp AND  'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR  terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR  'death'/exp OR death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug interaction'/exp  OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR  'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR  neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR  hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case  reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication'/exp OR 'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug tolerance'/exp/mj  OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR  'treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND [humans]/lim         European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 366/368   V. Safety  string versions   As the search strings are updated, the current, and all previous, versions of the safety string shall  remain in the table below for ease of comparison.   Version  Approval  Date  Effective  Date  Safety string   1.0 19 Jun  2015 1 Jul  2015 to  30 Sep  2015 AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR 'adverse drug reaction' OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR 'drug overdose' OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR 'drug misuse'  OR 'drug abuse' OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse' OR  'pregnancy'/exp OR 'pregnancy' OR 'drug efficacy'/exp OR 'drug efficacy'  OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'drug withdrawal' OR 'drug tolerance'/exp OR  'drug tolerance' OR 'medication error'/exp OR 'medication error' OR  'death'/exp OR 'death' OR 'drug interaction'/exp OR 'drug interaction' OR  'carcinogenicity'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity' OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR 'off  label drug use' OR 'occupational exposure'/exp OR 'occupational exposure'  OR 'toxicity'/exp OR 'int oxication' OR 'drug contraindication'/exp OR 'drug  contraindication' OR 'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'congenital disorder' OR  'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure' OR 'lactation'/exp  OR 'lactation' OR 'case report'/exp OR 'case report' OR 'environmental  exposure'/exp OR 'environmental exposure' OR 'treatment  contraindication'/exp OR 'treatment contraindication')   2.0 22 Sep  2015 01 Oct  2015 AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR  misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR  abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk  human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp  OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp  OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR  death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR  mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational  exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR  nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR  cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'cong enital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case  report'/exp OR 'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR  'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug contraindication'/exp OR  'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug  tolerance'/exp/mj OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug  resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR 'treatment  failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk) AND  [humans]/lim   2.1 29 May 01 Jun  2020 to Search string affecting chemical substance groups 25, 39, 71, 76, 201 ,     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 367/368   2020 31 Mar  2021 297 and 301 – 309:  AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR  misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR  abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy  complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk  human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp  OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de ,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp  OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR  death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR  mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational  exposure'/exp OR 'toxicity'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR  nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR  cytotox*:de,ab,ti  OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case  report'/exp OR 'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR  'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug contraindication'/exp OR  'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug  tolerance'/exp/mj OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug  resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR 'treatment  failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk OR  CORONAVIRUS:de,ab,ti OR ‘CORONA VIRUS‘:de,ab,ti OR CORONA - VIRUS:de,ab,ti OR CORONAVIRIDAE:de,ab,ti OR CORONAVIRINAE:de,ab,ti  OR BETACORONAVIRUS:de,ab,ti OR ‘NOVEL CORONA*‘:de,ab,ti OR  COVI*:de,ab,ti OR ‘COVID 19‘:de,ab,ti OR ‘COVI 19‘:de,ab,ti OR  COVID19:de,ab,ti OR COVI19:de,ab,ti OR COVID -19:de,ab,ti OR COVI - 19:de,ab,ti OR ‘2019 nCoV‘:de,ab,ti OR 2019nCoV:de,ab,ti OR 2019 - nCoV:de,ab,ti OR nCoV:de,ab,ti OR CoV -2:de,ab,ti OR CoV2:de,ab,ti OR  ‘CoV 2‘:de,ab,ti OR SARSCOV2:de,ab,ti OR SARS -COV-2:de,ab,ti OR  ‘SARS  COV 2‘:de,ab,ti OR SARS -COV2:de,ab,ti OR SARSCOV -2:de,ab,ti OR ‘SARS  COV2‘:de,ab,ti OR ‘SARSCOV 2’:de,ab,ti OR ‘SARS -COV 2‘:de,ab,ti OR  ‘SARS COV -2‘:de,ab,ti OR ‘NOVEL CoV‘:de,ab,ti OR (WUHAN AND (VIRUS  OR CORONA* OR COVI*)):de,ab,ti OR ((WUHAN OR HUBEI OR HUANAN)  AND (‘severe acute respiratory‘ OR Pneumonia OR SARS:de,ab,ti))) AND  [humans]/lim   All other substance groups remain using version 2.0   3.0 17 Feb  2021 01 Apr  2021 to  31 Mar  2024 Search string affecting chemical substance groups 25, 39, 71, 76, 201 ,  297 and 301 – 309:  AND ('adverse drug reaction'/exp OR adverse:de,ab,ti OR 'side  effect':de,ab,ti OR 'side effects':de,ab,ti OR 'side effect':lnk OR 'drug  overdose'/exp OR overdos*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug misuse'/exp OR  misus*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug abuse'/exp OR 'substance abuse'/exp OR  abus*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy'/exp OR pregnan*:de,ab,ti OR 'pregnancy     European Medicines Agency MLM Service EMBASE search strategy    EMA/517840/2015    Effective date: 1 April 2024 Page 368/368   complications'/exp OR 'lactation'/exp OR 'breast feeding'/exp OR ('milk  human'/exp AND 'secretion'/exp) OR 'fertility'/exp OR 'reproduction'/exp  OR 'fetus'/exp OR 'embryo'/exp OR terat*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug efficacy'/exp  OR 'drug withdrawal'/exp OR 'medication error'/exp OR 'death'/exp OR  death*:de,ab,ti OR fatal*:de,ab,ti OR 'drug interactions'/exp OR 'drug  interaction'/exp OR 'carcinogenicity'/exp OR carcinogen*:de,ab,ti OR  mutagen*:de,ab,ti OR 'off label drug use'/exp OR 'occupational  exposure'/exp OR 'toxi city'/exp OR toxic*:de,ab,ti OR  pharmacotox*:de,ab,ti OR neurotox*:de,ab,ti OR cardiotox*:de,ab,ti OR  nephrotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunotox*:de,ab,ti OR hepatotox*:de,ab,ti OR  cytotox*:de,ab,ti OR immunocytotox*:de,ab,ti OR 'intoxication'/exp OR  'congenital disorder'/exp OR 'drug treatment failure'/exp OR 'case  report'/exp OR 'case reports':de,ab,ti OR 'environmental exposure'/exp OR  'treatment contraindication'/exp OR 'drug contraindication'/exp OR  'injury'/exp OR suicide:de,ab,ti OR 'poisoning'/exp OR 'drug  tolerance'/exp/mj OR 'treatment failure'/exp/mj OR 'drug  resistance'/exp/mj OR 'substance -related disorders'/exp OR 'treatment  failure'/exp OR 'drug resistance'/exp OR 'drug resistance':lnk OR  CORONAVIRUS:de,ab,ti OR ‘CORONA VIRUS‘:de,ab,ti OR CORONA - VIRUS:de,ab,ti OR ‘CORONAVIRUS DISEASE 2019/EXP’ OR ‘SEVERE  ACUTE RESPIRATORY SYNDROME CORONAVIRUS 2/EXP’ OR  CORONAVIRIDAE:de,ab,ti OR CORONAVIRINAE:de,ab,ti OR  BETACORONAVIRUS:de,ab,ti OR ‘NOVEL CORONA*‘:de,ab,ti OR  COVI*:de,ab,ti OR ‘COVID 19‘:de,ab,ti OR ‘COVI  19‘:de,ab,ti OR  COVID19:de,ab,ti OR COVI19:de,ab,ti OR COVID -19:de,ab,ti OR COVI - 19:de,ab,ti OR ‘2019 nCoV‘:de,ab,ti OR 2019nCoV:de,ab,ti OR 2019 - nCoV:de,ab,ti OR nCoV:de,ab,ti OR CoV -2:de,ab,ti OR CoV2:de,ab,ti OR  ‘CoV 2‘:de,ab,ti OR SARSCOV2:de,ab,ti OR SARS -COV-2:de,ab,ti OR ‘SARS  COV 2‘:de,ab,ti OR SARS -COV2:de,ab,ti OR SARSCOV -2:de,ab,ti OR ‘SARS  COV2‘:de,ab,ti OR ‘SARSCOV 2’:de,ab,ti OR ‘SARS -COV 2‘:de,ab,ti OR  ‘SARS COV -2‘:de,ab,ti OR ‘NOVEL CoV‘:de,ab,ti OR (WUHAN AND (VIRUS  OR CORONA* OR COVI*)):d e,ab,ti OR ((WUHAN OR HUBEI OR HUANAN)  AND (‘severe acute respiratory‘ OR Pneumonia OR SARS:de,ab,ti))) AND  [humans]/lim   All other substance groups remain using version 2.0    


 
https://clinchoice.com/pharmacovigilance-literature-monitoring-best-practices/
Pharmacovigilance: Literature Monitoring Best Practices | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Pharmacovigilance: Literature Monitoring Best Practices Pharmacovigilance: Literature Monitoring Best Practices Your download is now available Download July 12, 2022 | By ClinChoice Safe and effective use of health products is a key objective of pharmacovigilance. Information is provided about the safety of these substances to patients, healthcare providers, and the general public as soon as possible. Pharmacovigilance includes reviewing the development, management, and introduction of pharmaceuticals. It is probably the most tightly regulated part of the pharmaceutical industry. Pharmacovigilance aims to identify, detect, assess, and report any adverse drug reaction (ADR) related to pharmaceutical products. In the United States, the European Union, and other parts of the world, regulatory requirements have emerged that have grown in diversity and nuance. These requirements include systematic monitoring and review of medical literature, including comprehensive screening of medical journals for adverse drug reactions, which remain on the rise. Having a robust pharmacovigilance system is paramount for a manufacturer, and any deficiencies can have an adverse effect on patient safety. Literature monitoring includes published articles, articles, and reviews in indexed or non-indexed journals, any content posted anywhere online, posters and conference abstracts, etc. Holders of a Marketing Authorization (MA) must monitor global and local literature throughout the duration of that authorization, regardless of the availability of the product on the market1. Regulatory reports, clinical trial reports, literature reports, license partner reports, and spontaneous reports all serve as sources of data for deeper analysis of regulatory reporting, signal detection, and aggregate reporting. The individual safety report (ICSR) is valuable for developing risk assessments. It is incumbent upon holders of marketing authorizations to stay up-to-date on potential publications (including ahead of print articles) by reviewing widely used reference databases (e.g., Medline, Embase, Excerpta Medica) every week 2 . Adverse events that meet the criteria for the ICSR are handled per regulatory guidelines on handling and reporting adverse events. When a relevant article has been identified, it will be further screened to determine if it meets the four essential criteria for consideration for Individual case safety report (ICSR) and adverse event reporting: 1) identified source, 2) company product, 3) patient, 4) adverse event 3 . Any analysis regarding the safety profile of a product should be based on scientific and medical publications. Literature searches and monitoring are primarily intended to identify single case reports of adverse effects and to track any changes in benefit-risk profiles associated with the drug, particularly when new safety signals safety concerns arise 4 . Literature Monitoring: An Overview of Best Practices When the foundation is compromised, a process can result in a cascade of unintended repercussions. Therefore, an unbiased search is vital for monitoring medical literature accurately and efficiently. The growing volume of data has made it more critical to get the best results without introducing unwanted data. The literature monitoring process is usually characterized by two major challenges, which can be overcome. The first challenge is to come up with the right search strategy, and the second is to deal with duplication. Drug manufacturers must often track hundreds of drugs at once. So how can literature monitoring be accurate and valid? Optimal Search Strategy Design and Database Selection Regulatory authorities require marketing authorization holders to conduct medical literature surveillance at least weekly according to the GVP module VI and based on the required frequency as described by the local regulatory authorities, both for globally indexed literature databases and locally (non-indexed) literature journals 5 . When developing search strategies, it is important to consider ICSRs, aggregate reports, and any potential safety-related information. Therefore, it is essential to develop and progressively improve search strategies to limit the risk of overlooking relevant ADR information. Specifically, to retrieve all relevant records, query terms must be highly recallable and carefully crafted to retrieve maximum publications reporting any safety concerns about the product in question. The database must be comprehensive and meet minimum standards to ensure that safety-critical signals are not missed. Pharmacovigilance searchers typically utilize at least two databases, usually three or more, because having access to multiple databases increases their recall-finding capabilities, ensuring more coverage. Implement a search approach that balances the need for accuracy and precision. For example, 1) use several Boolean operators, 2) browse a thesaurus of terms, 3) perform proximity search, and 4) incorporate abbreviations to recall results. Using the most recent thesaurus update will ensure accuracy and compliance 6 . As part of the local literature review, it is recommended to identify the non-indexed journals published locally and to screen those in either an online or print format depending on their availability. There are a few local regulatory agencies that recommend performing local literature searches in a few databases that are locally approved. The MAH handles any publications identified as containing information in local languages in accordance with the translation process established within the institution. Industry best practice calls for constant review of search terms and updating them based on safety-related updates pertaining to the products. A GOLD standard data set of records is used to validate the modified search strategies. It is recommended to review your search strategy annually and make amendments as necessary 7 . EMA hosts a robust system for medical literature monitoring. Thousands of records are added daily. It is generally the responsibility of marketing authorization holders to monitor medical literature and report individual cases of suspected adverse reactions into EudraVigilance and national safety databases 8 . They are not required to monitor or report suspected adverse reactions for active substances to EudraVigilance for substances covered by EMA’s service 9 . Duplicate Data Management Scientific publications and medical literature are abundant with sources and references, so it’s likely that the same publication could be indexed in multiple formats across a variety of journals, which results in duplicate findings. This creates a whole series of redundant tasks and false signals regarding drug safety. It leads to erroneous evaluations and, ultimately, compliance problems. Duplicate management processes, however, can solve this issue. Even though this is the best way of dealing with articles, it comes with a few challenges. There may be limitations to duplicate identification within the tool due to the presence of special characters, or it may be the case that the same study has been published across different journals or conference abstracts, making the process cumbersome. It is important to search multiple databases to capture multiple publications across different journals. Keeping track of previous searches will also facilitate the identification of duplicates. To identify duplicate publications, there should not be just a focus on the article title but also the author’s name and, in some cases, the name of the study cited in the article. According to Article 107(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC, to avoid duplicate submissions of ICSRs, the holder of a marketing authorization must submit the ICSRs that are not already assessed or monitored by EMA through the Medical Literature Monitoring (MLM) services 10 . Service providers should use a standardized and well-established deduplication system, enabling them to confirm that they are not missing relevant references or creating duplicates inadvertently. Along with routine literature surveillance, MAH also conducts targeted literature searches, which are searches specifically designed to answer a specific research question. When conducting signal analysis, these searches are conducted to confirm or disprove the association between the adverse event and the product. Summary Pharmacovigilance involves a substantial amount of literature monitoring . The process of devising a solid search strategy could be challenging but is essential. A professional with the required skills, experience, and training will ensure adverse event-related safety information is never missed. It is necessary to develop and maintain search strategies, elicit ideas from different stakeholders, and develop approved and suitable strategies for the purpose at hand. It is critical to set up a thorough process to handle and manage duplicate articles. Regularly review search strategies, and ensure the documentation is robust to ensure the finest quality results. The following points can be considered to check whether the MAH’s literature monitoring systems meet quality standards; A drug safety expert with experience researching literature is needed. Conduct risk assessments to ensure that the search criteria are robust and relevant to the objective of the literature search. Conduct literature searches and evaluate the results for literature per regional requirements (Global and Local). Monitoring and reviewing the Eudravigilance Medical Literature Monitoring (MLM) system, managed by EMA, to identify ICSRs in the literature if your product is included in the active ingredient screened by EMA. The search string is reviewed and updated annually to optimize results. About the Author Dr. Poonam Wagle; Associate Manager, Pharmacovigilance Poonam brings expertise in literature management as a pharmacovigilance and safety expert with over eleven years of experience in the areas of ICSR, Literature, Aggregate Reports, and Signal Reviews. She has established and led several projects and programs in the field, including ICSRs, and literature monitoring, in both global and local surveillance. About Us ClinChoice is a leading global Contract Research Organization (CRO), with over 3400 clinical research professionals across North America, Asia, and Europe. For more than 27 years, ClinChoice has been providing high-quality contract research services to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device, and consumer products clients, encompassing a broad range of services and therapeutic areas. ClinChoice offers cutting-edge, full-service solutions for Clinical Trials, Regulatory Affairs, Medical Device Safety, Toxicology, and Medical Affairs. 1) https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/human-regulatory/post-authorisation/pharmacovigilance/medical-literature-monitoring 2) https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/scientific-guideline/guideline-good-pharmacovigilance-practices-module-vi-management-reporting-adverse-reactions_en-0.pdf 3) https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/scientific-guideline/guideline-good-pharmacovigilance-practices-gvp-module-vi-collection-management-submission-reports_en.pdf 4) https://database.ich.org/sites/default/files/E2D_Guideline.pdf 5) https://europa.eu/en/documents/scientific-guideline/guideline-good-pharmacovigilance-practices-gvp-module-iv-pharmacovigilance-audits-rev-1_en.pdf 6) https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/other/monitoring-medical-literature-entry-relevant-information-eudravigilance-database-european-medicines_en.pdf 7) https://www.elsevier.com/solutions/embase-biomedical-research/coverage-and-content 8) https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/human-regulatory/post-authorisation/pharmacovigilance/medical-literature-monitoring 9) https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/human-regulatory/post-authorisation/pharmacovigilance/medical-literature-monitoring 10) https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/human-regulatory/post-authorisation/pharmacovigilance/medical-literature-monitoring This case study shows a real-world example of ClinChoice implementing FSP... Download ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center - Expanding its North American... View Post This review explores questions and considerations around custom-made, adaptable... Download Want to be the first to know about new blogs and resources? Sign up for our mailing list. Please fill out this form to unlock your download Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/solutions/regulatory%20Affairs/
Regulatory Affairs | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Solutions » Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Affairs Get Expert Assistance Meeting the Complex Challenges of Global Regulation and Develop Strategies To Minimize Risk and Maximize Benefit Regulatory affairs play a leadership role in life sciences product development and lifecycle management, informing all functional groups involved in the process. A solid regulatory affairs team is paramount to understanding the dynamic regulatory environment, ensuring compliance, and advising on opportunities created by new and revised regulations. Our professionals in the Americas, Europe, and Asia/Pacific assist clients in understanding and adhering to the regions’ regulatory requirements in which they conduct studies and market products. Market Intelligence and Strategy Our regulatory strategy consultants are mindful of regulatory updates in mature and emerging markets, helping our clients develop the right strategies to enter new markets and retain their edge in existing ones. Learn More Publishing Our team of publishing experts provides end-to-end publishing services for electronic and non-electronic formats at a document and report level and submission to health authorities. Learn More SPL Conversion Services Our experts support every label conversion requirement by preparing SPL submission packages for our clients with products in the US market. Learn More Global Regulatory CMC Services Our experienced CMC team authors dossier sections for new applications and manage global change control requests, variation submissions, supplements, annual report submissions, and renewals. Learn More Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Our global multi-disciplinary teams develop high-quality company core data sheets and create the framework for its maintenance during its lifecycle. Learn More Labeling and Artwork Management Our local and global labeling hubs create and maintain labels and artwork with unparalleled market intelligence, deep-domain expertise, and deep product knowledge. Learn More Legal Entity Alignment Our global regulatory operations have helped our clients manage the evolution of their organizations as they merge, acquire, or divest their brands and product portfolios in emerging and mature markets around the world. Learn More Regulatory Information Management Our regulatory data experts support applications for variations, renewals, supplements, and annual report submissions, apart from xEVMPD submissions. Learn More Document Management Our teams have experience in collating information from various sources and maintaining document versions to reduce the time taken to create dossiers and other regulatory documents for submission to health authorities. Learn More Product Registration Support Our legal-regulatory teams prepare document packages for product registration in various markets based on our in-house regulatory intelligence and understand local nuances for new registrations, renewals, and tender participation, and more. Learn More See All Solutions Free Consultation Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings


 
https://clinchoice.com/custom-made-medical-devices-eu-requirements/
Custom-Made Medical Devices: Are You Complying With EU Requirements? - ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Custom-Made Medical Devices: Are You Complying With EU Requirements? Custom-Made Medical Devices: Are You Complying With EU Requirements? Your download is now available Download October 2, 2023 | By ClinChoice The world is progressing rapidly with advanced technologies and customization in almost every sector to meet human needs. In the healthcare sector, manufacturers of medical devices are actively involved in developing individualized products based on a patient’s needs. In some instances, over-the-counter/mass-produced medical devices, especially implantable devices, may not meet the specific patient’s requirements. Hence, custom-made devices (CMDs) are required to fulfill such individual patients’ healthcare needs. This article summarizes current medical device regulatory requirements for CMDs in the European Union (EU), and how these requirements differ from other medical devices. What are Custom-made devices? The EU Medical Device Regulations (MDR) Article 2(3) defines a ‘custom-made device’ as “any device that is specifically made following a written prescription of any person authorized by national law by virtue of that person’s professional qualifications, which gives, under that person’s responsibility, specific design characteristics, and is intended for the sole use of a particular patient exclusively to meet their individual conditions and needs.” Simply put, CMD is a medical device designed for a specific patient to suit their anatomical and physiological needs as prescribed by a legally authorized and qualified professional who provides specific design characteristics under their responsibility. For example, dental crowns/patient-specific dental guards, and prostheses are all CMDs, as pictured below ( Figure 1 ). Figure 1 : Examples of Custom-made devices However, not all medical devices tailored to meet an individual patient/user’s needs following an individualized written prescription by a qualified health professional are classified as CMDs. Personalized medical devices are often misconstrued as CMDs. There are two types of personalized medical devices: adaptable medical devices (such as spectacle frames and optical glasses) and patient-matched devices (such as orthopedic plates, mandibular plates, and externally worn orthoses). Even though these devices are intended to suit an individual’s needs, they are primarily mass-produced utilizing industrial manufacturing procedures to meet specific basic requirements, which are then further tailored to meet an individual patient/user’s need. In other words, a medical device based on standardized dimensions or designs not designed only for a particular individual and typically produced in a continuous production run or homogenous batch cannot be categorized as a CMD. How are the requirements for Custom-made devices different from other medical devices? Custom-made device manufacturers must comply with EU MDR before placing their products on the European market to ensure safety and performance to meet design standards. However, unlike other medical device manufacturers, CMD manufacturers must meet only specific regulations. Table 1 provides an overview of these specific MDR requirements applicable to CMDs compared to other medical devices. Table 1 : Regulatory requirements of Custom-made and other medical devices Reference: MDR Regulation (EU) 2017/745: Annex XIII (completely dedicated to custom-made devices); Annex IX: Conformity assessment based on a Quality Management System and assessment of technical documentation; Annex XI: Conformity assessment based on product conformity verification Conformity Assessment Procedure for Custom-made devices As per EU MDR requirements, all medical devices should comply with relevant regulatory requirements to ensure conformity. Figure 2 below describes the procedure for the conformity assessment of CMDs (such as notified body review) and compliance. The manufacturer must prepare a conformity assessment statement (as detailed in step 1, Figure 2 ) and keep up to date the documentation as stated in Annex XIII of MDR, including details such as manufacturing information, design, and performance of the device. The manufacturers of CMDs need to follow instructions for use when using CE-marked parts, components, or materials. In case of change in any physical, chemical, or biological characteristics of these parts during the manufacturing of the CMDs, compliance of the finished product to the general safety and performance requirements of MDR Annex I needs to be met. Custom-made devices are classified using a similar risk-based approach that includes invasiveness, intended use, and duration of use as other medical devices. Manufacturers of CMDs must provide a classification reason to the notified body and details on why the device is classified as a CMD. Figure 2 : Procedure for Custom-made devices MDR Compliance Timeline Extension Unlike MDD regulations, MDR mandates the involvement of a notified body in the conformity assessment of Class III custom-made implantable devices. As a benefit of the extension for the manufacturers, it is permissible to put Class III custom-made implantable devices into service or place them on the market until 26 May 2026 without needing certification from a notified body. However, for these devices, the manufacturer or their EU-authorized representative must submit a formal application for conformity assessment to the notified body by 26 May 2024. Moreover, a written agreement with the notified body must also be signed by 26 September 2024. All other classes of CMDs can be placed on the market after meeting all the applicable MDR requirements and drawing a statement as per Annex XIII of MDR. Transitioning from MDD to MDR is an ongoing challenge for many manufacturers wanting to keep their existing medical devices available in the EU market. At ClinChoice, we take great pleasure in assisting you in fulfilling these regulatory requirements, including the preparation of clinical evaluation reports and other regulatory reports for your medical devices . We are here to support you with a team of proficient specialists to ensure you meet the MDR regulatory requirements for your CMDs and other medical devices without experiencing any hassle. About Us ClinChoice is a leading global Contract Research Organization (CRO) with over 3,700 clinical research professionals across North America, Asia, and Europe. For more than 27 years, ClinChoice has been providing high-quality contract research services to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device, and consumer products clients, encompassing a broad range of services and therapeutic areas. ClinChoice offers cutting-edge, full-service solutions for Clinical Trials, Regulatory Affairs, Medical Device Safety, Toxicology, and Medical Affairs. This case study shows a real-world example of ClinChoice implementing FSP... Download ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center - Expanding its North American... View Post This review explores questions and considerations around custom-made, adaptable... Download Want to be the first to know about new blogs and resources? Sign up for our mailing list. Please fill out this form to unlock your download Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/project-frontrunner-advantages-in-directing-oncology-therapy-development-to-an-earlier-clinical-setting/
Project FrontRunner: Advantages in directing oncology therapy development to an earlier clinical setting - ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Project FrontRunner: Advantages in directing oncology therapy development to an earlier clinical setting Project FrontRunner: Advantages in directing oncology therapy development to an earlier clinical setting Your download is now available Download October 2, 2023 | By ClinChoice Project FrontRunner is an Oncology Center of Excellence (OCE) initiative that encourages sponsors to consider when it is appropriate to develop new cancer drugs for advanced or metastatic disease in an earlier clinical setting. Currently clinical trials are designed to include patients who have run out of treatment options and are in their late stage of disease. Giving patients access to new treatment options at an earlier stage will improve the safety assessment of investigational drugs. Patients in this setting have a good performance status in comparison to the late stage setting where there can be ongoing and residual issues due to numerous lines of therapy prior to enrolling in a clinical trial. Focusing on treatment options at an earlier stage would allow sponsors to consider randomized controlled trials and other study designs including the adaptive design given the larger patient pool. From here, sponsors would be able to compare the existing standard of care with the new treatment options. This would include opening more treatment arms in their study protocols and lead to innovative study designs which move away from the traditional 3+3 design. The acceptance of this project provides the opportunity for additional treatment options and the improved survival of oncology patients. Advancing oncology therapy development Project FrontRunner is an initiative that will have tremendous impact on the way cancer research is conducted while also having the potential to unfold new cancer drug development. This project has the potential to increase the patient pool which would not only have impact on study enrollment, but also help sponsors to test the safety of their investigational product by examining in patients with better performance status over a longer period of time. In turn, this will lead to a better understanding of the safety profile. This seems to be a win-win situation for sponsors and patients as it results in faster clinical development and earlier access to innovative solutions. Key considerations during the transition process The scope of Project FrontRunner is tied to other OCE initiatives and early adopters will be the ones who benefit the most. However, it is expected that not all oncology trials will change to include patients in the early stages of their disease or in advanced metastatic settings and there will continue to be clinical trials in late settings. The sponsors will need to make changes in the way they do their pre-clinical research to support this initiative. This means that the investigational drugs that are about to begin their First in Human studies may not be able to make that switch immediately and there will be a lag period. As previously mentioned, this initiative will take traction as time progresses and the oncology research space will see the impact of the changes accordingly. Next steps in improving the standard of care As a result of Project FrontRunner, oncology clinical trials will move away from traditional study designs to innovative study designs in an effort to support different situations. Currently, most sponsors are trying to get academic institutions on board since these institutions have the types of patients who are needed to support enrollment on the study. With this initiative, the sponsors will need to make some adjustments in terms of expectations about site selection. This would mean sponsors not only need to look for academic sites but also community oncology practices to get the enrollment of patients in their clinical trials. As a result, this will help community practices who are investing in the clinical research infrastructure and in the training of their staff to support their site participation in clinical trials. From the sponsor’s perspective, this can lead to getting more sites on board and increasing the cost to perform the clinical study. Considering the way oncology clinical trials are evolving regarding precision medicine, emphasis on genomics, and other nuances to develop individualized treatment option for patients, it will get harder to find patients if sponsors are not receptive to the idea of having more sites on board in order to enroll the required patient types in their clinical studies. There is a give and take in this situation and the sooner this is realized the better it will be for the sponsor, the study sites, and oncology clinical research. About the Author Syed Shah, MD, MPH, is currently working to support the ClinChoice team as Associate Director, Medical Monitoring. He has been in the industry for over 23 years and his experience in the field allows him to swiftly identify potential issues and operational challenges in study protocols, enabling him to develop innovative solutions that ensures seamless trial execution and compliance with regulatory standards. About ClinChoice ClinChoice is a leading global Contract Research Organization (CRO), with over 3700 clinical research professionals across North America, Asia, and Europe. For more than 27 years, ClinChoice has been providing high-quality contract research services to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device, and consumer products clients, encompassing a broad range of services and therapeutic areas. ClinChoice offers cutting-edge, full-service solutions for Clinical Trials, Regulatory Affairs, Medical Device Safety, Toxicology, and Medical Affairs. References: https://www.fda.gov/about-fda/oncology-center-excellence/project-frontrunner This case study shows a real-world example of ClinChoice implementing FSP... Download ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center - Expanding its North American... View Post This review explores questions and considerations around custom-made, adaptable... Download Want to be the first to know about new blogs and resources? Sign up for our mailing list. Please fill out this form to unlock your download Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/informed-consent-guidance-for-irbs-clinical-investigators-and-sponsors/
Informed Consent: Guidance for IRBs, Clinical Investigators and Sponsors - ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Informed Consent: Guidance for IRBs, Clinical Investigators and Sponsors Informed Consent: Guidance for IRBs, Clinical Investigators and Sponsors Your download is now available Download October 2, 2023 | By ClinChoice In August of 2023, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) released a final guidance document that serves to assist Institutional Review Boards (IRBs), Investigators and Sponsors in their roles and responsibilities related to the Informed Consent process. This document serves as a finalization to the FDA’s draft guidance issued in July 0f 2014 entitled “ Informed Consent Information Sheet ” and supersedes previously released guidance documents, including the FDA’s “ A Guide to Informed Consent ”, which was released in September of 1998. ICF Summary & Background It is not uncommon to hear informed consent referred to as the “informed consent process ”. This is because the signing of the Informed Consent Form (ICF) entails far more than just a signature. According to the FDA, the informed consent process begins with advertisements used to recruit subjects. For this reason, it is important that any information provided in such advertisements be consistent with the ICF document and contain only the information needed for a subject to confirm their interest and potential eligibility for the study. After identification of a potential subject, an investigator, or someone knowledgeable about the study and able to answer questions about the research, should hold a consent discussion with the subject, or their legally authorized representative (LAR), about the research to be conducted. Often times, this discussion is lengthy and can take place over a number of days, weeks, clinic visits or phone calls between the investigator and the subject. It requires adequate time for the subject to interpret the information presented and make an informed decision about their participation, along with time for the subject to ask questions. The ICF process does not end with subject signature and enrollment. In fact, the informed consent process continues throughout the length of the subject’s participation, requiring investigators to share any new or updated safety information that has come to light. Requirements and Exceptions The process of informed consent and the ICF document must meet 21 CFR 50.20 requirements and include the basic elements of informed consent required by 21 CFR 50.25. However, there are some exceptions to this requirement, including certain life-threatening situations, military operations, or public health emergencies (21 CFR 50.23) or situations involving emergency research (21 CFR 50.24). The FDA does not limit the authority of a physician to provide emergency medical care to the extent the physician is permitted to do so under applicable Federal, State, or local law. ICF Recommendations Free of coercion and undue influence Information presented to the subject must be in a clear, concise manner, which does not hold false promises of benefit. Any payment made to subjects should be approved by the IRB as non-coercive. Understandable language Information provided to the subject, or their LAR, must be presented in a language understandable to the subject and at a level they can comprehend. Free of exculpatory language The ICF document must be free of any language that implies the investigator, sponsor, site or its agents are not liable for negligence. ICF Elements At a minimum, an ICF must include a description of the study, expected/potential risks and discomforts, expected/potential benefits, alternative procedures or treatments available to the patient, confidentiality principles, compensation and treatment in the event of injury, study contact information, and a statement of voluntary participation. Additional ICF elements may be applicable depending on the research to be conducted, according to 21 CFR 50.25(b). Such elements may include a statement of unforeseeable risk, involuntary termination of subject’s participation, additional cost to subjects, consequences of a subject’s decision to withdraw, providing significant new findings to subjects, and the approximate number of subjects involved in the study. Under 21 CFR 50.27, a short form may be used in a situation where the required elements of the ICF are presented orally, such as in a case where the subject or LAR is unable to read due to low literacy levels or visual impairment. Any information planned to be shared orally to support the use of a short form must be IRB approved. All applicable clinical trials must, per FDA requirement, include the following statement exactly as written: “A description of this clinical trial will be available on https://www.ClinicalTrials.gov, as required by U.S. Law. This Web site will not include information that can identify you. At most, the Web site will include a summary of the results. You can search this Web site at any time.” Additional explanation may be provided, if deemed necessary. A copy of the ICF, preferably signed, should be given to the person who signed the consent form. For circumstances where the consent does not occur in-person, a wet-ink or electronic signature must be obtained and the signed ICF sent to the investigator by mail, delivered by the subject (at their next scheduled visit) or sent electronically. The subject or LAR is also responsible for entering the date of signature on the ICF. Certain circumstances, such as those involving no more than minimal risk, allow for the use of oral consent from a subject or their LAR, in which case no signature is required, and the consent process should be thoroughly documented in the subject’s case history and maintained under 21 CFR 312.62(b) or 21 CFR 812.140(a)(3). IRB Responsibilities As it relates to the informed consent process, the IRB is responsible for review of all informed consent materials, including recruitment materials (e.g. advertisements) and supplemental materials (e.g. schedule of assessments) to ensure their compliance with 21 CFR 50.25. In their review, the IRB must ensure all materials are free from coercive language and undue influence (21 CFR 50.20 and 56.111(a)(4)). If the study involves vulnerable populations, the IRB must ensure adequate safeguards are in place. It is the IRB’s role to consider if subjects should be informed of any financial relationships or interests associated with the investigation. In case of conflicting financial interests, the IRB should ensure subjects are adequately protected. The planned process for consent should be submitted by the investigator to the IRB. The investigator should clearly state who will be responsible for conducting the consent process and what procedures will be followed. The IRB is authorized to observe or have a third party observe the consent process, as deemed necessary. Any new information about the research or changes to the study that may affect the rights or welfare of subjects must be presented to the IRB. The IRB is responsible for determining if a revised ICF is required based on the new information. If so, the amended ICF must be approved by the IRB before implementation by the investigator. The revised ICF should be marked with a clear identifier to distinguish between the different versions. Should a study be suspended, the IRB has the authority to require that information be provided to subjects if it adds to the protection of their rights and welfare. However, the IRB, sponsor and investigator have the shared responsibility of determining what information is shared. If a study is terminated, subjects should receive as much information as possible regarding the rationale behind the termination. Investigator Responsibilities The investigator is responsible for obtaining the informed consent. They may delegate this responsibility to another individual who is qualified by education, training and experience, though the investigator is ultimately responsible for oversight of the designated individual and ensuring the informed consent was obtained in accordance with 21 CFR part 50. The individual obtaining consent should be knowledgeable about the clinical investigation and have the appropriate training and credentials to be able to answer any questions posed by the subject or LAR. It is the investigator’s responsibility to submit the planned process for obtaining the informed consent to the IRB for approval. Any material intended for subjects as part of the informed consent process must also be approved by the IRB. No materials, including the ICF, may be shared with potential subjects until the IRB has granted all necessary approvals. It is also the investigator’s responsibility to submit any new information revealed during the course of the study to the IRB for approval before the changes are initiated within the conduct of the research. An exception to this rule may occur when necessary to prevent immediate harm to the subjects (21 CFR 56.108(a)(4)). The investigator should consider including information related to financial relationships or interests within the consent form. For example, they may choose to disclose the source of funding for the study, information about a financial arrangement or interest of an institution or investigator and how it is being managed. If a potential or actual conflict of interest exists, the investigator should consider having another individual, who does not have a financial conflict of interest, be involved in the consent process or the investigator may choose to use independent monitoring for the consent process. Sponsor Responsibilities The sponsor may provide a template ICF to the investigator for use. However, the sponsor must make certain that the ICF is updated following any feedback from the FDA received on their IND or IDE application to satisfy the regulations at 21 CFR 50.25. Any modifications made to the ICF after initial IRB submission must be re-submitted and re-approved before starting the trial. If the investigator chooses to use the sponsor’s ICF template, it is the sponsor’s responsibility to ensure that any modifications made by the investigator satisfy 21 CFR 50.25 regulations. Should the local IRB return with significant modifications to the ICF, the sponsor is expected to share the changes with all investigators and their respective IRBs. The sponsor may choose to be present during the first procedure for an IND trial, whether it be to provide support to the investigator or to record study-related information for the experimental device. In this case, the sponsor should outline these activities in the informed consent form, particularly if the activities of the sponsor personnel will directly affect the subject(s). FDA Responsibilities The FDA’s role in reviewing informed consent materials is to consider the appropriate communication of anticipated risks and discomforts to the subjects, as well as other required elements as per 21 CFR 50.25. If the FDA determines that the informed consent documents are misleading or do not adequately explain the required information to the subjects, they may require further revisions to be made before the trial can proceed. For Investigational New Drugs (INDs) and Biologics, the FDA does not necessarily require the submission of the ICF with the IND, however they may request it if deemed necessary for the trial to proceed safely. Typically, the FDA will want to review the ICF if the investigation involves a known unusual or serious toxicity or risk to subjects, a vulnerable population, an unusual study design, if the study is a post marketing safety clinical trial required by the FD&C Act section 505(o) to assess serious risk, involves asking subjects to forgo or delay known effective treatment for the disease, or if the FDA has other confidential or proprietary information not readily available to the IRB. For Investigational Medical Devices which require an IDE, the sponsor must submit all informed consent documents to the FDA. The sponsor is required to correct any deficiencies noted by the FDA within the informed consent documents before the clinical trial can be initiated. About the Author Jessica Connolly assists in study management oversight within the Clinical Operations department as an Associate Project Manager. She works closely with sites, sponsors, and IRBs to assist in regulatory reporting during the study start-up phase. In addition, she works with sites and sponsors to ensure all Informed Consent documents meet regulatory requirements and assists with revisions as needed. About Us ClinChoice is a leading global Contract Research Organization (CRO), with over 3,700 clinical research professionals across North America, Asia, and Europe. For more than 27 years, ClinChoice has been providing high-quality contract research services to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device, and consumer products clients, encompassing a broad range of services and therapeutic areas. ClinChoice offers cutting-edge, full-service solutions for Clinical Trials, Regulatory Affairs, Medical Device Safety, Toxicology, and Medical Affairs. This case study shows a real-world example of ClinChoice implementing FSP... Download ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center - Expanding its North American... View Post This review explores questions and considerations around custom-made, adaptable... Download Want to be the first to know about new blogs and resources? Sign up for our mailing list. Please fill out this form to unlock your download Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/new-eu-mdr-compliance-dates-impact-assessment/
New EU MDR Compliance Dates | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » New EU MDR compliance dates: Impact assessment and next steps New EU MDR compliance dates: Impact assessment and next steps Your download is now available Download September 18, 2023 | By ClinChoice MDR transition Regulation (EU) 2017/745 on medical devices (MDR) has replaced the dated Medical Device Directive 93/42/EEC (MDD) to help increase overall compliance and standards for the quality and safety of medical devices marketed in the EU as well as to raise public awareness and ensure continuous monitoring of product safety and performance throughout the entire product lifetime. MDR requirements are significantly more extensive than the MDD: while the MDD comprises 23 Articles and 12 annexes over 60 pages, the MDR has 123 articles and 17 annexes over 175 pages. Therefore, to maintain or obtain CE certification, companies must meet MDR requirements to remain in compliance and keep their product on the EU market. Extension of the transition period By June 2022, it was clear that compliance with the transitional phase, which was set for May 26 th , 2024, was unlikely to occur since the market and industry faced numerous difficulties that would ultimately impact consumers. The biggest challenge was the availability and capacity of notified bodies (NB) accredited under MDR; post-Brexit, the EU no longer recognizes UK Notified bodies, eliminating their right to issue CE certificates, thus diminishing the number of Notified bodies available to help with the transition. Other contributing factors include lack of advanced preparation and planning by manufacturers due to uncertainties surrounding NB availability, EUDAMED, lack of trained resources, new compliance expectations imposed by MDR, e.g., additional safety and performance data, i.e., General Safety and Performance Requirements (GSPRs), plausible reclassification of several devices into higher risk categories, among others. Hence, taking these concerns into account, on March 15 th, 2023, the EU enacted Regulation (EU) 2023/607, which provides a much-needed extension to the original MDR transitional provisions. The extensions only apply to devices that have not undergone significant change in design or intended use and do not present an unacceptable risk to users and patients, and for which manufacturers have taken the necessary steps to comply. The fact that the MDR transition period has been extended is good news for manufacturers, but there isn’t really much time to relax. New MDR Compliance Timeline What should Manufacturers do? Manufacturers should have a valid MDD/AIMDD certificate on the MDR Date of application (May 26th, 2021) and completed the following by May 26th, 2024, to qualify for the extension: 1\. Implement a quality management system as outlined in MDR Article 10(9) and 2 . Formally lodge an application with a Notified Body for the device Note: QMS implementation by this timeline is exempted for Class III implantable custom-made devices The only exception to this would be if the competent authority has approved a derogation under Article 59 MDR or 54 IVDR. It is therefore imperative for continual business that manufacturers complete their due diligence, rather than assuming that their products will automatically be extended under the MDR if they comply with requirements after adoption. Failure to comply with the above timelines and regulations prevents the device qualification under this extension. ClinChoice’s support and services MDR’s scope of change will necessitate effective project management to establish that tasks are properly completed on schedule. At ClinChoice, we provide services to expedite and simplify compliance achievement at any stage of the transition and compliance to help ensure our clients are not impacted from a business standpoint and that the transition process is seamless. Our experts use their skills to create a transition plan and see it through to completion by implementing best practices and leading project teams at each stage. Our support includes but is not limited to – meeting the checklist of MDR, classification review, gap assessment, setting up the clinical evaluation process, technical documentation compilation, post-market vigilance system establishment, assisting companies to qualify for extension timelines by lodging a formal application, and written agreement, among others. About Us ClinChoice is a leading global Contract Research Organization (CRO), with over 3,700 clinical research professionals across North America, Asia, and Europe. For more than 27 years, ClinChoice has been providing high-quality contract research services to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device, and consumer products clients, encompassing a broad range of services and therapeutic areas. ClinChoice offers cutting-edge, full-service solutions for Clinical Trials, Regulatory Affairs, Medical Device Safety, Toxicology, and Medical Affairs. References EU Commission Q&A Pamphlet https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:32017R0745 https://www.gov.uk/guidance/regulating-medical-devices-in-the-uk https://health.ec.europa.eu/system/files/2023-07/mdr_proposal_extension-q-n-a.pdf This case study shows a real-world example of ClinChoice implementing FSP... Download ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center - Expanding its North American... View Post This review explores questions and considerations around custom-made, adaptable... Download Want to be the first to know about new blogs and resources? Sign up for our mailing list. Please fill out this form to unlock your download Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/clinchoice-partners-with-anju-to-simplify-the-complexities-of-life-science-information-management/
ClinChoice Partners with Anju to Simplify the Complexities of Life Science Information Management - ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » ClinChoice Partners with Anju to Simplify the Complexities of Life Science Information Management ClinChoice Partners with Anju to Simplify the Complexities of Life Science Information Management Your download is now available Download June 26, 2023 | By ClinChoice Ft. Lauderdale, FL June 26, 2023 – Anju Software, a leading life science technologies provider, announced that ClinChoice is expanding its footprint with TrialMaster and Anju’s eClinical Suite. The partnership allows ClinChoice to deliver a full suite of cost-efficient and adaptable eClinical solutions providing impactful insights and accelerated results. “With our acquisition of Cromsource, we welcomed Anju as a partner for eClinical solutions,” stated Tiepu Liu, ClinChoice President of Global Biometrics. “The Cromsource team has over ten years of experience designing and managing Phase I-IV clinical trials on TrialMaster, one of the most intuitive, feature-rich electronic data capture solutions on the market.” “We look forward to supporting ClinChoice as they increase their global presence,” stated Michael Loftus, Anju Vice President of CRO Partner Program. “Our adaptable technologies paired with Anju’s customer-first approach enables our partners to rapidly deliver solutions that scale.” TrialMaster allows organizations conducting clinical research to streamline the collection, processing, and submission of clinical trial data to regulatory authorities to expedite the development and approval to market of life-saving drugs and devices. TrialMaster supports Phase I-IV multilingual clinical trials, is accessible from any electronic device, and includes ePRO, autoencoding, SAE reporting, and eConsent in a single solution. About ClinChoice ClinChoice is a global clinical CRO dedicated to offering high-quality services to biopharmaceutical, vaccine, medical device, and consumer products companies. These services include Clinical Operations, Project Management, Biostatistics and Programming, Data Management, Regulatory Affairs and Medical Affairs, Pharmacovigilance, Cosmetovigilance, Toxicology, as well as Medical Writing and other product development services. ClinChoice has delivery centers across the US, Canada, Europe, India, the Philippines, Japan, and China, with more than 4,000 dedicated professionals. About Anju Anju Software is a customer-first organization providing adaptable life science solutions for clinical research, medical affairs, and data science. TrialMaster, IRMS MAX, and TA Scan, the company’s flagship products, lead the way in reducing complexities in the drug and device discovery and commercialization process. Anju is a portfolio company of Abry Partners serving the worldwide pharmaceutical, biotech and contract research Life Sciences markets. Media Contact Lisa Pahl Anju Software +1 979.413.5334 lisa.pahl@anjusoftware.com This case study shows a real-world example of ClinChoice implementing FSP... Download ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center - Expanding its North American... View Post This review explores questions and considerations around custom-made, adaptable... Download Want to be the first to know about new blogs and resources? Sign up for our mailing list. Please fill out this form to unlock your download Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/our-one-of-a-kind-fsp-capabilities/
Our one-of-a-kind FSP capabilities | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Our one-of-a-kind FSP Capabilities Our one-of-a-kind FSP Capabilities Your download is now available Download May 17, 2023 | By ClinChoice Functional Service Provider (FSP) models can enhance workflows while speeding up timelines and remaining cost-effective. ClinChoice has over 27 years of experience helping customers find the FSP model that’s right for them. Watch this video to learn more and talk with a specialist today to find a flexible FSP model that fits your current needs. This case study shows a real-world example of ClinChoice implementing FSP... Download ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center - Expanding its North American... View Post This review explores questions and considerations around custom-made, adaptable... Download Want to be the first to know about new blogs and resources? Sign up for our mailing list. Please fill out this form to unlock your download Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/first-time-into-medical-writing-for-medical-devices-what-you-need-to-know/
First Time Into Medical Writing for Medical Devices: What You Need to Know | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » First Time Into Medical Writing for Medical Devices: What You Need to Know First Time Into Medical Writing for Medical Devices: What You Need to Know Your download is now available Download March 9, 2023 | By ClinChoice New Intern (NI) : Hello, Senior Medical Writer – today’s my first day! I’m really excited to know the skills one needs to acquire for writing related to medical devices! Senior Medical Writer (SMW) : That’s great, and welcome! We’re happy to have you, and I hope I can answer any questions you might have. But I want you to remember two important things about medical writing for medical devices. As medical writers, we always need to ensure that the medical device is safe for a patient. In addition, it must perform as intended. But to get started, I’d like to ask you a question. NI : Sure! SMW : What’s the first thing you think of when you hear – Medical writing for medical devices ? NI : Hmm – I think of an operation manual that comes with devices like a blood glucose monitor, a blood pressure monitor, and a sleep apnea machine. But beyond that, I’m not sure of the specifics. SMW : Well, that falls under medical writing for medical devices, but there’s much more to it! Let’s start at the ground level to ensure we’re on the same page moving forward. Before we get to medical writing for medical devices, let’s cover medical writing in general. NI : Sounds good! So, what is medical writing? SMW : Medical writing is a science and art involving the writing of scientific documents of different types for regulatory submissions, scientific/technical presentations, medical communication, medical journalism, and medical editing, among other needs for drugs, devices, combination products, biologics, and more. Examples of documents include literature reviews, clinical protocols, clinical investigation reports, clinical evaluation plans and reports, post-marketing surveillance plans and reports, periodic safety update reports, 510(k), and premarket approval applications. The writing projects are essential either to obtain regulatory approval for the device to be marketed or to maintain the device on the market in different countries. Once a medical device is approved for use, there is a periodic update of most of these technical documents throughout the device’s lifecycle. NI : I see. Then what are the specifics around medical writing for medical devices ? SMW : Medical writing for medical devices usually requires help from experienced professionals who understand the complexities of technical writing in a highly regulated environment. Medical writers need a basic understanding of clinical research, statistics to interpret clinical and non-clinical studies, challenges faced by the medical device industry, and regulations that govern the marketing of a device in a particular geographic location. A writer should be able to understand the importance of each document and the impact of wrong interpretation of any referred data on medical devices and their regulations. Besides, writers ensure their documents are grammatically correct and free of spelling and formatting errors. NI : Interesting. What’s the industry demand like for medical writers for medical devices currently? SMW : The demand for medical writing for medical devices has increased significantly in recent years due to a few key factors. Increased scrutiny from global regulators requiring additional or more detailed regulatory documentation requires a) Real-world evidence collection for all medical devices throughout their life cycle. It includes modern wearables, software as a medical device (SaMD), and other novel medical drug-device combination products b) Increased accessibility and channel-specific content for medical device documentation c) Clinical investigation for high-risk devices. In addition, companies are expanding the range of medical devices. A few examples include combination products and artificial intelligence/machine learning (AI/ML) based software as a medical device, among others. As the demand for medical writing continues to grow steadily in the medical device market, many skilled medical writers have become available to help train aspiring individuals who would like to choose this career path and create a roadmap for their future. NI : Wow, that’s really interesting! I’m guessing there are different, even more, specialized types of medical writing for medical devices, too? SMW : Oh, sure! Medical writing involves writing different types of documents for different purposes and audiences , like: Medical journalism for the general public, written in simple, non-technical language. Educational content for physicians, such as textbooks, continuing medical education programs, presentations, and e-learning tools. Educational content for patients. Marketing materials and literature targeted at healthcare professionals, such as manuals, brochures, and handouts. Publication and presentation content, including journal articles, manuscripts, abstracts, and posters. Research documentation, including the clinical trial protocol, investigator’s brochure, consent form, report, and proposal. Regulatory documents, including instructions for use, clinical evaluation plans, clinical evaluation reports, periodic safety update reports, 510(k)s, and premarket approval NI : So, different types of medical writing for medical devices are intended for a unique audience, from physicians, patients, the general public, and medical device manufacturers to regulators. That must mean that the language and the level of technical content must be appropriate for the respective audience . SMW : That’s exactly right. For example, documents for medical professionals and regulators are typically highly technical and include scientific data with detailed explanations. In contrast, documents intended for patients and the general public are written in layman’s terms. NI : What about regulatory documents ? SMW : Documents for regulatory submission must fulfill a set format and structure with content guided by specific regulations or regulatory guidance documents. Changes in regulatory requirements and device specifications often require creating new or updated regulatory documents. These updates can be critical to ensuring patient safety and obtaining optimal results from a device . NI : This is enlightening! I had no idea there was so much complexity to medical writing and medical writing for medical devices specifically, but I’m here to learn. Couldn’t have asked for a better introduction! SMW : So happy to help get you started! Remember, medical writing for medical devices is a science and an art. It demands a deep understanding from different perspectives and a genuine aptitude for quality writing. Thorough knowledge of specific documents and a deep understanding of the therapeutic area is required as it is extremely critical to create scientifically accurate documents that meet regulatory requirements. Connect with Experienced Medical Writers for Medical Devices Whether you’re just starting to develop a new medical device, ready to start clinical trials, need to update an existing device, or anywhere in between, our experienced medical writers can help eliminate all the headaches that come with developing clear and compliant documentation. Contact ClinChoice today to learn more. About Us ClinChoice is a leading global Contract Research Organization (CRO), with over 4000 clinical research professionals across North America, Asia, and Europe. For more than 27 years, ClinChoice has been providing high-quality contract research services to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device, and consumer products clients, encompassing a broad range of services and therapeutic areas. ClinChoice offers cutting-edge, full-service solutions for Clinical Trials, Regulatory Affairs, Medical Device Safety, Toxicology, and Medical Affairs. This case study shows a real-world example of ClinChoice implementing FSP... Download ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center - Expanding its North American... View Post This review explores questions and considerations around custom-made, adaptable... Download Want to be the first to know about new blogs and resources? Sign up for our mailing list. Please fill out this form to unlock your download Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/clinchoice-acquires-cromsource-expanding-its-global-presence/
ClinChoice Acquires CROMSOURCE, Expanding its Global Presence - ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » ClinChoice Acquires CROMSOURCE, Expanding its Global Presence ClinChoice Acquires CROMSOURCE, Expanding its Global Presence Your download is now available Download March 1, 2023 | By ClinChoice Philadelphia, USA; Shanghai, China; and Verona, Italy. March 01, 2023 – ClinChoice Medical Development is pleased to announce its acquisition of CROMSOURCE S.r.l., an ISO-certified full-service contract research organization with its corporate headquarters in Verona, Italy and its US headquarters in Cary, NC. CROMSOURCE has operational subsidiaries in the US and seven countries throughout Western and Eastern Europe, along with field-based staff across various locations in Europe and across the US. Founded in 1997, CROMSOURCE has a proven track record of supporting global pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and medical device clients with exceptional clinical research and staffing capabilities. The acquisition will strengthen ClinChoice’s global network and deepen its full-service capabilities. ClinChoice’s commitment to best-in-class quality and on-time delivery of its services has resulted in a strong track record of successful execution of clinical trials and functions including biometrics, regulatory, safety, medical, and clinical operations. ClinChoice provides these services across the drug, medical devices, vaccines, cosmetics, and consumer health sectors utilizing both project-based and FSP models. As a global CRO, ClinChoice provides solutions across the development lifecycle for pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device, and consumer products companies worldwide. The Company’s clientele ranges from the largest multinational companies to startup and emerging companies. ClinChoice has completed over 1,500 clinical studies across multiple therapeutic areas, including oncology, CNS, rare disease, ophthalmology, metabolic, and respiratory, amongst others. “We are excited to work with CROMSOURCE and expand our coverage in Europe and the US to better meet our global clients’ needs and accelerate product development and support lifecycle management. Strategically, the acquisition of CROMSOURCE provides us with a highly experienced team of operational and technical experts in Europe and North America, adding to our existing capabilities in clinical development and staffing solution services,” said Ling Zhen, Chairman and Global CEO of ClinChoice. “The acquisition of CROMSOURCE brings significant enhancement to our talent pool. It enhances our operational capabilities with additional delivery hubs to complement our current network in Europe and the US. This merger also expands our data science technology offerings in many areas including decentralized clinical trials and risk-based monitoring,” said John Balian, Co-Founder and CEO of ClinChoice, Inc, who leads the company’s US, European, and Southeast Asia operations. CROMSOURCE Founder and CEO Oriana Zerbini, MD noted: “We are thrilled to be combining CROMSOURCE’s deeply experienced and talented team with that of ClinChoice. The two companies offer such clear synergies that it was a very easy decision to join Ling, John, and the rest of the impressive ClinChoice team. We look forward to becoming the CRO partner of choice for any client anywhere in the world.” CROMSOURCE was advised by Fairmount Partners, and ClinChoice was represented by Crosstree Capital. …….. About ClinChoice ClinChoice is a global clinical CRO dedicated to offering high-quality services to biopharmaceutical, vaccine, medical device, and consumer products companies. These services include Clinical Operations, Project Management, Biostatistics, Data Management, Regulatory Affairs and Medical Affairs, Pharmacovigilance, Cosmetovigilance, Toxicology, as well as Medical Writing and other product development services. ClinChoice has delivery centers across the US, Europe, Canada, China, India, Japan, and the Philippines, with more than 4,000 dedicated professionals. About CROMSOURCE CROMSOURCE is an ISO-certified, full-service international CRO specializing in Clinical Operations and Development and flexible resourcing solutions delivered by stable teams of highly experienced professionals. CROMSOURCE operates offices across all regions of Europe and North America and conducts projects globally. For media inquiries and requests, please contact: Lee King SVP, Business Development & Marketing +1 910 200 5235 Lee.king@clinchoice.com Lisel Wang Sr. Director, Corporate Affairs +86 21 8024 3225 Lisel.wang@clinchoice.com This case study shows a real-world example of ClinChoice implementing FSP... Download ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center - Expanding its North American... View Post This review explores questions and considerations around custom-made, adaptable... Download Want to be the first to know about new blogs and resources? Sign up for our mailing list. Please fill out this form to unlock your download Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/gut-microbiota-a-disregarded-subject-in-toxicological-risk-assessment/
Gut Microbiota: A Disregarded Subject in Toxicological Risk Assessment - ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Gut Microbiota: A Disregarded Subject in Toxicological Risk Assessment Gut Microbiota: A Disregarded Subject in Toxicological Risk Assessment Your download is now available Download December 16, 2022 | By ClinChoice The microbiome is coevolved in humans and healthy individuals. The microbiome is said to be in the symbiosis or eubiosis state, in which the microbiome is intact with its functions, such as digestion and absorption of food and xenobiotics, eliciting the immune response, protecting the body from external microorganisms, and producing the essential metabolites required for normal functioning of the body. This case study shows a real-world example of ClinChoice implementing FSP... Download ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center - Expanding its North American... View Post This review explores questions and considerations around custom-made, adaptable... Download Want to be the first to know about new blogs and resources? Sign up for our mailing list. Please fill out this form to unlock your download Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/ema-and-us-fda-requirements-for-non-clinical-development-of-radiodiagnostics/
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/scientific-guideline/draft-guideline-non-clinical-requirements-radiopharmaceuticals-first-version_en.pdf
    30 Churchill Place  ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom   An agency of the European Union     Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000 Facsimile  +44 (0)20 3660 5555   Send a question via our website  www.ema.europa.eu/contact       © European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.     15 November 2018 1  EMA/CHMP/SWP/686140/2018 2  Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)  3  Guideline on the non-clinical requirements for  4  radiopharmaceuticals  5  Draft 6  Draft agreed by Safety Working Party  October 2018   Adopted by CHMP  for release for consultation  15 November 2018   Start of public consultation  22 November 2018   End of consultation (deadline for comments)  30 June 2019   7  This guideline replaces the  non-clinical part of the Note for Guidance on Radiopharmaceuticals/  8  Eudralex 3AQ20a  and 3Q21a . For quality aspects, 3AQ20a has bee n replaced by the ‘Guideline on  9  Radiopharmaceuticals’  (EMEA/CHMP/QWP/306970/2007).  10   11  Comments should be provided using this template . The completed comments form sho uld be sent to  SWP-H@ema.europa.eu     12  Keywords  radiopharmaceuticals, radiodiagnostics, radiotherapeutics, non-clinical  safety assessment    13   Guideline on the non -clinical requirements for   radiopharmaceuticals    EMA/CHMP/SWP/686140/2018  Page 2/10   Guideline on the non-clinical requirements for  14  radiopharmaceuticals  15  Table of contents  16  Executive summary  ................................ ................................ .....................  3 17  1. Introduction (background)  ................................ ................................ ...... 3 18  2. Scope ................................ ................................ ................................ ....... 3 19  3. General principles  ................................ ................................ ....................  3 20  4. Legal basis  ................................ ................................ ..............................  4 21  5. "Targeted" non -clinical evaluation of radiopharmaceuticals  ...................  4 22  5.1. Basic considerations ................................ ................................ .............................  4 23  5.2. Non -clinical safety programme for a known or minimally changed non -radioactive part of 24  a new radiopharmaceutical  ................................ ................................ ...........................  6 25  5.2.1. Pharmacology  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 6 26  5.2.2. Pharmacokinetics ................................ ................................ ...............................  6 27  5.2.3. Toxicology  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  6 28  5.3. Non -clinical safety programme of a new radiopharmaceutical using microdose  .............  7 29  5.3.1. Recommendations for Radiodiagnostics  ................................ ................................  7 30  5.3.2. Recommendations for Radiotherapeutics  ................................ ..............................  8 31  5.4. Non -clinical safety programme of a new radiopharmaceutical using single sub - 32  pharmacological or pharmacologically active doses  ................................ .........................  8 33  5.4.1. Recommendations for Radiodiagnostics  ................................ ................................  8 34  5.4.2. Recommendations for Radiotherapeutics  ................................ ..............................  9 35  5.5. Non -clinical safety programme for radiopharmaceuticals using multiple dosing  ............  9 36  5.5.1. Pharmacology  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 9 37  5.5.2. Pharmacokinetics ................................ ................................ ...............................  9 38  5.5.3. Toxicology  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  9 39  5.5.4. Genotoxicity  ................................ ................................ ................................ ... 10 40  5.5.5. Reproductive toxicity and Carcinogenicity  ................................ ...........................  10 41  6. GLP  ................................ ................................ ................................ ........  10 42  7. Definitions  ................................ ................................ .............................  10 43   44   Guideline on the non -clinical requirements for   radiopharmaceuticals    EMA/CHMP/SWP/686140/2018  Page 3/10   Executive summary  45  This guideline describes the non -clinical data that need to be  submitted in relation to the non- 46  radioactive part of radiopharmaceuticals, in the context of applications for marketing authorisations or 47  clinical trials.  48  1.  Introduction (background)  49  The need for a guidance paper focusing specifically on the non -clinical te sting requirements for 50  radiopharmaceuticals has emerged since currently  there is no detailed guidance available. Therefore, in 51  addition to the general non -clinical requirements described in e.g. ICH M3(R2), ICH S9 and ICH S6(R1), 52  the principles for non -clinical data generation in support of the specific clinical uses of 53  radiopharmaceuticals are laid down in this guideline . 54  2.  Scope  55  This guideline covers  radiodiagnostics as well as radiotherapeutics,  and provides  guidance for a targeted 56  approach to assess pharmacology and safety of the non -radioactive part of a radiopharmaceutical . The 57  principles explained in this document address the non- clinical evaluation as prerequisite for a clinical 58  trial authorisation as well as for a marketing authoris ation applicat ion. According to the categorisation of 59  the "Guideline on radiopharmaceuticals" ( EMEA/CHMP/QWP/306970/2007)  "ready to use" 60  radiopharmaceuticals will be covered . However, some of the principles outlined in this guideline might 61  also apply to the non- radioact ive component of so called “kits” and non -radioactive chemical precursors. 62  The toxicity induced by the radiation of the radionuclide  (which for radio therapeutics is the wanted 63  property) is not addressed in this guideline , since radiation induced clinical toxicity is covered by 64  Directives of EURATOM  (Directive 2013/ 59/Euratom) . 65  3.  General principles  66  Scientific innovation and the ability to generate highly -targeted ligands led to the development of many 67  different types of radiopharmaceuticals which show a larg e variety of clinical uses. They may be used as 68  radiodiagnostic s for scintigraphy  imaging, for measurement of biodistribution or as radiotherapeutics 69  administered to humans only once or with a low frequency of repeated administrations at doses lacking 70  a measureable pharmaco logical effect.  One common feature is that many of these radiopharmaceuticals 71  are prepared in small -scale quantities for the use in exploratory trials and will not undergo a full 72  development  programme  aiming  to marketing authoris ation. However, like for other medicinal products, 73  the same principles of safety evaluation should apply prior to the use of radiopharmaceuticals in humans 74  in clinical trials as well as for marketing authoris ation purposes. Therefore, a non -clinical risk 75  assessment  in line with the respective legislation is needed prior to the first in human (FIH) 76  administration of a radiopharmaceutical  and subsequent clinical development . The risk assessment will 77  in general be covered in the non -clinical program me and will influenc e the risk mitigation plan included 78  in the clinical study protocol.  79  In the case of radiopharmaceuticals it has to be considered that they represent a special class of 80  pharmaceuticals due to their conjugated design  and radiolabel . They are composed of a no n-radioactive, 81  “cold” , part with a radionuclide attached . The radionuclide may be linked to the non -radioactive ligand 82  by a linker and/or chelators also called “carrier”. In the following , all possible forms of the non - 83  radioactive moiety will be named “non -radioactive part” throughout the paper.  84   Guideline on the non -clinical requirements for   radiopharmaceuticals    EMA/CHMP/SWP/686140/2018  Page 4/10   General guidance, especially for the timing and duration of nonclinical safety studies, can be received 85  from ICH M3(R2)  EMA/CPMP/ICH/286/1995.  However, in many cases knowledge of the non -clinical 86  characteristics and a clinical experience already exists for the non -radioactive part. In common with any 87  other submission the presence of published or clinical data may obviate the need to conduct the 88  complete non-clinical program me in line with ICH M3(R2) . This would also contribute to a reduction of 89  animal use in line with the principles of 3Rs. Factors that are important to consider are  the level of 90  evidence on the pharmacological properties and toxicological characteristics of the non- radioactive  part, 91  the anticipated mass dose of the radiopharmaceutical in the clinical trial or for marketing authorisation 92  and the duration of treatment.   93  The need for physiological distribution studies for the sole purpose of ensuring quality of the 94  investigational radiopharmaceutical  should be avoided by any means. Instead, appropriate 95  characterisation of the relevant product parameters is expected by stat e-of-the art methods.  96  4.  Legal basis  97  This guideline has to be read in conjunction with:  98  • Directives of the European Atomic Energy Community (EURATOM) (Directive 2013/59/Euratom).  99  • Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended in particular Directive 2001/83/EC Art 10(4) and Part II of the 100  Annex I of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended.  101  • Directive 2010/63/EU on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes.  102  • Directive 2004/10/EC on the harmonisation of laws, regulations and administrative provisions 103  relating to the appli cation of the principles of good laboratory practice and the verification of their 104  applications for tests on chemical substances.  105  • CHMP/SWP/28367/07 (July 2017): "Guideline on strategies to identify and mitigate risks for first in 106  human and early clinical t rials with investigational medicinal products".  107  • EMEA/CHMP/QWP/306970/2007:"Guideline on Radiopharmaceuticals" . 108  • ICH S6(R1) (December 2011):"Preclinical safety evaluation of biotechnology –derived 109  pharmaceuticals".  110  • ICH S9 (Oct 29, 2009):"Nonclinical evaluatio n for anticancer pharmaceuticals".  111  • ICH M3(R2) (Dec. 2009):"Non -clinical safety studies for the conduct of human clinical trials and 112  marketing authorisation for pharmaceuticals".  113  • ICH S7A (June 2001): “Note for guidance on safety pharmacology studies for hum an 114  pharmaceuticals” . 115  5.  "Targeted" non -clinical evaluation of radiopharmaceuticals  116  5.1.  Basic considerations  117  Toxicity of radiopharmaceuticals may be driven by the non -radioactive as well as the radioactive 118  components of the radiopharmaceutical. T he radiation emitted by the radionuclide is a wanted property 119  of radiotherapeutics . In the case of radiodiagnostics , however, radionuclides with much lower emission 120  of radiation and with usually  a very short physical half -life are used . 121   Guideline on the non -clinical requirements for   radiopharmaceuticals    EMA/CHMP/SWP/686140/2018  Page 5/10   For characterisation of a new radiopharmaceutical , a biodistribution study  in animals is  usually 122  conducted  with the radiolabelled compound  allowing to measure tissue distribution and elimination . In 123  addition , calculation of dosimetry in order to predict the radioactive exposure in humans  and to mitigate 124  radiation induced toxicity , is performed.  However,  as mentioned in the scope,  recommendations for the 125  non-clinical development  of the non- radioactive part  are the focus of this guideline . 126  For different  scenarios as outlined below, where evidence needs to be only partly generated, a targeted 127  (in the sense of a reduced) non -clinical program me for the non- radioactive part of the 128  radiopharmaceutical can be considered:  129  a) Radionuclide changed in  a known radiopharmaceutical : only the radionu clide is changed and the 130  non-radioactive part was already used in numerous clinical trials or even authoris ed with other 131  radionuclides. In this case, evidence should be provided by the applicant on the availability and 132  results of the non -clinical testing a lready performed for the non -radioactive unchanged part  of the 133  formerly used radiopharmaceutical(s). Reference in the dossier to previous applications with the 134  investigational radiopharmaceutical may be possible in cases the applicant is the same or has 135  obtained permission to use non -clinical data of other applications. The use of literature or other 136  publicly available data is possible but should be of good scientific  quality  and justified by the 137  applicant.  138  In these cases a flexible, but targeted approach i s required to identify possible remaining gaps in 139  the safety information for the new investigational radiopharmaceutical especially with focus on 140  pharmacology.   141  b) Radionuclide added to a known non- radioactive pharmaceutical: i nformation is needed that the 142  radiolabelling does not significantly alter the pharmacology of the whole molecule when the 143  radionuclide is replacing an existing non -radioactive atom.  144  c) Minimal change of the non -radioactive part of a radiopharmaceutical: t his could be a small change in 145  the amino acid sequence of a peptide or another small change in the molecular structure of the non - 146  radioactive part  of a known radiopharmaceutical, intended for example  to improve stability . For this 147  new but structurally  closely related entity , the applicant  should bridge from existing non -clinical data 148  of the known radiopharmaceutical and address possible changes in  its pharmacolog y and safety in 149  order to allow for a  possibl e reduced non-clinical program me. 150  The microdose approach described in ICH M3(R2)  is reflecting single as well as multiple administrations 151  up to five including a wash out period and implies a reduced non -clinical testing in which safety 152  assessment in a single (rodent) species can suffice.  153  Due to possible peculiarities as outlined above a reduced non -clinical testing could be anticipated for 154  additional scenarios. For example at dosages outside microdose  toxicities related to the non -radioactive 155  part are usually still minor compared to radiat ion-induced toxicities of a radio therapeutic in oncology 156  treatment . The amount of non- clinical data needed for the non -radioactive part is therefore dependent 157  on risk –benefit considerations and exposure levels to the non -radioactive part. Hence, also in th ese 158  cases a study in one species could be considered to be sufficient.  159  The aspects outlined above give rise to specific considerations regarding the extent and type of the non - 160  clinical data package to support clinical trial and marketing authorisation of r adiopharmaceuticals. 161  Specific approaches will avoid the unnecessary use of animals, allowing an optimal use of resources and, 162  ultimately, facilitate the progression of these medicinal products into clinical use.  In this regard , such a 163  targeted non -clinical program me represent s an opportunity for limiting animal testing  in accordance 164  with the 3Rs principles and  is strongly encouraged.  165   Guideline on the non -clinical requirements for   radiopharmaceuticals    EMA/CHMP/SWP/686140/2018  Page 6/10   However, the spectrum of possible combinations of molecules to construct a radiopharmaceutical i n 166  addition to the possible therapeutic targets of radiopharmaceuticals is very broad. Therefore, a flexible 167  approach on a case by case  basis might still be needed despite this guideline.  168  5.2.  Non-clinical safety program me for a known or minimally  changed non- 169  radioactive part of a new radiopharmaceutical 170  In case no  reference is possible to previous applications or other public data using the identical non- 171  radioactive part of the investigational radiopharmaceutical, the reduced non -clinical program me outlined 172  below for a known or minimally changed non -radioactive part should be considered.  173  5.2.1.  Pharmacology  174  The appropriate characteri sation of pharmacology of the non -radioactive part alone is also expected in 175  the case where the non- radioactive part of an alr eady known radiopharmaceutical is claimed to be 176  minimally changed. Emphasis should be laid on in vitro target/ receptor profiling.  The selectivity and 177  specificity of the non -radioactive part as well as secondary pharmacodynamics, defined as effects on 178  other than the desired therapeutic targets, should be critically evaluated and documented. M easureable 179  pharmacodynamic effects are normally not expected to be seen from the non -radioactive part of most 180  radiopharmaceuticals for diagnostic or therapeutic purpose s. However, evidence for the absence of 181  pharmacodynamic effects is expected, and should be supported by appropriate data. 182  If no data are provided,  the applicant has to justify the absence of in vitro/in vivo pharmacology data 183  even in the case of a minimal change to the molecule.  184  5.2.2.  Pharmacokinetic s 185  For such minimally changed radiopharmaceutical s information on in vivo stability should be available. In 186  addition,  the biodistribution study  performed in healthy animals of a relevant species  including  187  dosimetry should be thoroughly evaluated to detect any change in biodistribution and target organs 188  related to the non -radioactive part compared to the former, known molecule.  For radiotherapeutics, the 189  study may be performed in an animal model of disease,  if appropriate, to support that the targeted area  190  / organ will still be reached adequately.  191  5.2.3.  Toxicology  192  Main focus should be laid on the evaluation of the target organs of biodistribution and possible 193  persistence of the modified non-radioactive part  possib ly leading to so far unknown toxic effects even if 194  the change is claimed to be minimal . A biodistribution study in one species with s ingle application and 195  integrated measurement of toxicity endpoints can be generally considered sufficient . If off target bi nding 196  is likely to be minimal from the results of the dosimetry s tudy, histopathological examination may be 197  limited to target organs.  198  In the case of an e xploratory trial with intended clinical dose of the radiopharmaceutical being a 199  microdose according to approach 1 or approach 2 as outlined in ICH M3 (R2) (see also 5.3) and if, in 200  addition , the absence of pharmacological activity of the non -radioactive part could be demonstrated,  201  such a biodistribution study could be waived.  202   Guideline on the non -clinical requirements for   radiopharmaceuticals    EMA/CHMP/SWP/686140/2018  Page 7/10   5.3.  Non-clinical safety program me of a new radiopharmaceutical using 203  microdose  204  The majority of clinical trials performed with radiopharmaceuticals falls under the scope of exploratory 205  trials. Therefore, the microdose approach as outlined in ICH M3 (R2) can be applied. According to the 206  definition given there , a microdose is a total dose ≤ 100 µg (no inter -dose interval limitations) and total 207  dose ≤ 1/100th  NOAEL and ≤1/100th  pharmacologically active dose (approach 1), or a t otal cumulative 208  dose ≤ 500 μg, maximum of 5 administrations with a washout between doses (6 or more actual or 209  predicted half -lives) and each dose ≤ 100 μg and each dose ≤ 1/100th of the NOAEL and ≤ 1/100th of 210  the pharmacologically active dose (approach 2). Due  to differences in molecular weights between 211  biologicals and che micals, and  due to  the fact that pharmacological and toxicological effects are usually 212  driven by the molar amount and not by the mass, a maximum dose above 100 µ g based on molar 213  amount can be accepted for high molecular weight molecules taking into account  the potency of the 214  molecule (approach 1 for biologicals). Approach 2 may be less relevant for biologicals with a long 215  elimination half -life. 216  Accordingly, the minimal requirements for the non -clinical development of a radiopharmaceutical 217  carrying a new non-radioactive part using the microdose approach are outlined below.  This non- clinical 218  package is usually also considered sufficient for marketing authorisation applications  using the same 219  dosing regimen .  220  5.3.1.  Recommendations for Radiodiagnostics  221  In most case s microdose approach 1 of ICH M3(R2) will be used for radiodiagnostics since no 222  pharmacological effect is intende d and only a very small mass dose is administered after single 223  administration . 224  5.3.1.1.  Pharmacology  225  Radiodiagnostics are not intended to exert pharmacological activity, but evidence for  the absence of 226  pharmacological activity of the non -radioactive part  should be provided. In this context, in vitro target/ 227  receptor profiling is usually sufficient . 228  5.3.1.2.  Pharmacokinetic s 229  A biodistribution study including dosime try should be performed with  a single dose of  the 230  radiodiagnostic. Information on in vivo stability, distribution and elimination should be available to allow 231  estimation of tissue and whole -body radiation doses in the clinic  and to identify target organs for 232  distribution and persistence of the radiodiagnostic.  If relevant, information shou ld be provided on 233  absorption and biotransformation.  234  5.3.1.3.  Toxicology  235  According to microdose approach 1 outlined in ICH M3(R2), the results of an extended single dose 236  toxicity study using the intended route of administration (usually i.v. route for radiodiagnostics) , with 237  toxicokinetic data  should be available for the non- radioactive part . 238  When using the microdose approach 2, a repeat dose study for  at least 7 days would be expected. A 239  study of shorter duration may be considered on a case by case basis.  240  For both approaches a study in one species , usually rodent,  can be generally considered sufficient.  241   Guideline on the non -clinical requirements for   radiopharmaceuticals    EMA/CHMP/SWP/686140/2018  Page 8/10   In the extended single dose, as well as in repeat dose studies, haematology, clinical chemistry, necropsy 242  data and histopathology will be fully evaluated.  243  Investigation of local tolerance, where applicable, should be done as an integral part of the extended 244  single dose study.  245  5.3.1.4.  Genotoxicity  246  Genotoxicity studies  are not recommended. However, if e.g. data on structure -activity relationship 247  (SAR) assessment are available they should be submitted.  248  5.3.2.  Recommendations for Radiotherapeutics  249  The same testing strategy as outlined above for radiodiagnostics will also apply for new 250  radiotherapeutics when using the microdose approach. The only additional aspect to consider in these 251  cases is that the dosimetry study might be performed in an animal model of disease, if appropriate, to 252  support that the targeted area will be reached adequately.  253  5.4.  Non-clinical safety program me of a new radiopharmaceutical using 254  single sub -pharmacological or pharmacologically active doses  255  The minimal requirements for the n on-clinical development of a radiopharmaceutical carrying a  new 256  non-radioactive part using  single sub -pharmacological (but above microdos e) or pharmacologically 257  active doses are outlined below. This non -clinical package is usually also considered sufficien t for 258  marketing authorisation applications  using the same dosing regimen .  259  5.4.1.  Recommendations for Radiodiagnostics  260  5.4.1.1.  Pharmacology  261  Radiodiagnostics may exert pharmacological activity  at doses above a microdose. The pharmacological 262  activity of the non -radioactive  part or its absence has to be shown by the applicant. In this context, in 263  vitro target/ receptor profiling is usually sufficient.  264  5.4.1.2.  Pharmacokinetic s 265  A biodistribution study including dosimetry should be performed with a single dose of the 266  radiodiagnostic. I nformation on in vivo stability, distribution and elimination should be available to allow 267  estimation of tissue and whole -body radiation doses in the clinic and to identify target organs for 268  distribution and persistence of the radiodiagnostic. If relevant,  information should be provided on 269  absorption and biotransformation.  270  5.4.1.3.  Toxicology  271  Generally, extended single dose toxicity studies in both a rodent and non -rodent should be available 272  using the intended clinical route of administration with toxicokinetics, haematology, clinical chemistry, 273  necropsy data and histopathology as evaluated endpoints . 274  If the non- radioactive part of the radiopharmaceutical does not show pharmacological activity at the 275  intended clinical dose only one relevant species, usually rodent,  is sufficient.  276  Investigation of local tolerance, where applicable, should be done as integral part of the extended single 277  dose study.  278   Guideline on the non -clinical requirements for   radiopharmaceuticals    EMA/CHMP/SWP/686140/2018  Page 9/10   In addition, the standard core battery for safety pharmacology may be included as integral part of the 279  extended single do se toxicity study.  280  5.4.1.4.  Genotoxicity  281  For the genotoxicity testing of the non- radioactive part  of the radiodiagnostic , if not a biotechnology 282  derived product,  e.g. an Ames test, would be expected.  283  5.4.2.  Recommendations for Radiotherapeutics  284  The same testing strategy as outlined above for radiodiagnostics will apply for new radiotherapeutics in 285  the case using single sub -pharmacological or pharmacologically active doses are used.  The only 286  additional aspect to consider in these cases is that the dosimetry study might be performed in an animal 287  model of disease, if appropriate, to support that the targeted area will be reached adequately.  288  5.5.  Non-clinical safety program me for radiopharmaceuticals using  multiple  289  dosing  290  In absence of complete clearance between administration of multiple doses in the therapeutic range 291  standard ICH M3(R2) requirements should be followed for the non -radioactive part . There are no 292  general differences in this respect between the expected non -clinical data package for radiodiagnostics 293  and radiotherapeu tics. In the case of a radiotherapeutic used in oncology , ICH S9 should be considered 294  if applicable . 295  5.5.1.  Pharmacology  296  Pharmacological activity of the non -radioactive part or its absence has to be shown by the applicant. In 297  this context, in vitro target/ receptor profiling is usually sufficient.  298  5.5.2.  Pharmacokinetic s 299  A biodistribution study including dosimetry after administration of the whole radiodiagnostic should be 300  performed. Information on in vivo stability, distribution and elimination should be available to allow 301  estimation of tissue and whole -body radiation doses in the clinic and to identify target organs for 302  distribution and persistence of the radiodiagnostic.  303  5.5.3.  Toxicology  304  In the case of complete washout between dosing an exte nded single dose toxicity study  in both a rodent 305  and non- rodent should be available using the intended clinical route of administration with 306  toxicokinetics, haematology, clinical chemistry, necropsy data and histop athology as evaluated 307  endpoints. If the non- radioactive part of the radiopharmaceutical does not show pharmacological activity 308  at the intended clinical dose only one relevant species, usually rodent,  is sufficient.  309  Investigation of local tolerance, where a pplicable, should be done as an integral part of the extended 310  single dose study.  311  In addition, the standard core battery for safety pharmacology may be included as integral part of the 312  extended single dose toxicity study.  313   Guideline on the non -clinical requirements for   radiopharmaceuticals    EMA/CHMP/SWP/686140/2018  Page 10/10   5.5.4.  Genotoxicity  314  For the genotoxicity testing of the non- radioactive  part of the radiotherapeutic , if not a biotechnology 315  derived product,  e.g. an Ames test would be expected. In the case of a radiotherapeutic used in 316  oncology, an Ames assay may not be required for advanced cancers where ICH  S9 is applicable.  317  5.5.5.  Repro ductive toxicity and Carcinogenicity  318  For radio pharmaceuticals carrying a radionuclide  with a high emi ssion of radiation and a long half -life 319  such as anticancer drugs,  carcinogenicity and reproductive toxicity studies could be waived since the 320  radiation emission of these medicinal products is causing well known DNA damage with consequences 321  for carcinogenicity and reproductive toxicity. However, the respective risk should be outlined in the 322  product labelling.  323  Reproductive toxicity and a carcinogenicity stud ies for the non -radioactive part alone are usually not 324  required unless there is concern due to the duration of the treatment while  the radiation emission of the 325  attached radionuclide  is low . 326  6.  GLP 327  It is generally expected that non -clinical  safety studies are carried out in conformity with the principles 328  of GLP (Dir 2004/10/EC), but also principles of animal welfare  should be applied. However, it is 329  recognized that, due to the specific characteristics of radiopharmaceuticals, it might not be  possible to 330  conduct every study  in conformity with GLP , in particular when  the radiation emission is high . 331  Frequently , such non-GLP results come from biodistribution and dosimetry studies.  Therefore, in 332  practice the relevant safety aspects are usually sufficiently addressed by conducting the non -clinical 333  studies with the non -radioactive part of the radiopharmaceutical  according to GLP . 334  If a pivotal non -clinical safety study has not been conducted in conformity with the GLP principles, a 335  scientific  justification should be submitted. This justification should also address the potential impact of 336  the non- compliance on the reliability of the safety data.  In any case the  study should run according to 337  the principles of GLP as close as possible . Detailed documentation of the study conduct, results and 338  archiving of data should be ensured. In addition, the study should be performed in accordance with a 339  prospectively designed study protocol . 340  7.  Definitions  341  DNA - Deoxyribonucleic Acid  342  EURATOM - European atomic energy c ommunity  343  FIH – First in human  344  GLP – Good laboratory practice  345  NOAEL – No observed adverse effect level  346 


 
https://clinchoice.com/ema-and-us-fda-requirements-for-non-clinical-development-of-radiodiagnostics/
EMA and FDA Requirements for Non-Clinical Development of Radiodiagnostics | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » EMA and US FDA requirements for non-clinical development of radiodiagnostics EMA and US FDA requirements for non-clinical development of radiodiagnostics Your download is now available Download November 30, 2022 | By ClinChoice Pertaining to the radiodiagnostic agents, there are few changes in the non-clinical requirements between the EMA (European Medical Agency) (EMA/CHMP/SWP/686140/2018) [1] and US FDA (United States Food and Drug Administration) (Docket Number: FDA-2017-D-5297, Document ID: FDA-2017-D-5297-0007) [2] . The requirements are not the same between them; therefore, for someone who needs to register a product through EMA and US FDA, it is necessary to know about the prerequisites. The objective of this article is to summarize the EMA and US FDA non-clinical requirements for the registration of radiodiagnostic agents, along with comparing and comprehending the similarities and differences between them. EMA versus US FDA, non-clinical requirements for radiodiagnostics [1,2] The non-clinical requirements for registration of radiodiagnostic agents in EMA and US FDA are illustrated in Table 1. The non-clinical phase is one of the important aspects of drug development; hence, extensive testing is required before the first human exposure. Specific to radiodiagnostics, the non-clinical development requirements are relatively lesser as compared to the non-clinical development of a drug; however, the type of non-clinical studies to be conducted should be determined on a case-by-case basis. For instance, the US FDA has discovered delayed radiation effects of radiodiagnostics as a serious risk, and such issues can be addressed through dosimetry and radiation threshold studies in animals before first human exposure. Because of the small dose (microdose), infrequent exposure (unless it is warranted), and low potential for toxicity compared to pharmaceuticals and radiotherapeutics. In these lines, when an inventor is looking to launch an already existing radiodiagnostic product in a different geographical region (For example, for launching a USFDA-approved radiodiagnostic agent in EMA region or vice versa), based on the regulatory requirements, gap analysis needs to be performed to ascertain further steps on the submissions. Knowing the regulatory requirements (EMA and USFDA) will help us develop the checklist for the dossier preparation. At Clinchoice, we have a dedicated team of experts who look after the different aspects of radio diagnostic submissions for approval, which includes summarizing the regulatory requirements, performing gap analysis, developing checklists and regulatory strategies, preparing of dossier, among other services. Table 1. Illustration of Non-clinical development requirements for US FDA and EMA NA – Not applicable; CNS, Central nervous system; CVS, Cardiovascular system. Talk with a specialist today to learn how ClinChoice can support and alleviate hurdles in your submission. About Us ClinChoice is a leading global Contract Research Organization (CRO), with over 3400 clinical research professionals across North America, Asia, and Europe. For more than 27 years, ClinChoice has been providing high-quality contract research services to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device, and consumer products clients, encompassing a broad range of services and therapeutic areas. ClinChoice offers cutting-edge, full-service solutions for Clinical Trials, Regulatory Affairs, Medical Device Safety, Toxicology, and Medical Affairs. Authors Dr. GL Vishwanatha, M. Pharm, Ph.D., ERT (UK-RT), PG (Statistics), MBA Associate Manager – Toxicology team Clinchoice Private Limited Bangalore-560078 Karnataka, India E-mail: vishwanatha.gl@clinchoice.com Phone: 098444 92334 Mr. Ashish Kapoor, M. Sc, DABT, ERT (UK-RT) Associate Manager – Toxicology team Clinchoice Private Limited Bangalore-560078 Karnataka, India E-mail: ashish.kapoor@clinchoice.com References: 1) https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/scientific-guideline/draft-guideline-non-clinical-requirements-radiopharmaceuticals-first-version_en.pdf 2) https://www.fda.gov/media/107641/download This case study shows a real-world example of ClinChoice implementing FSP... Download ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center - Expanding its North American... View Post This review explores questions and considerations around custom-made, adaptable... Download Want to be the first to know about new blogs and resources? Sign up for our mailing list. Please fill out this form to unlock your download Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/rare-disease-an-overview-of-stxbp1/
Rare Disease: An Overview of STXBP1 | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Rare Disease: An Overview of STXBP1 Rare Disease: An Overview of STXBP1 Your download is now available Download November 21, 2022 | By ClinChoice STXBP1 is a gene that encodes a specific protein called MUNC18-1 which is essential for synaptic transmission 1 . The MUNC18-1 protein is a key protein that helps organize the SNARE-complex which is responsible for mediating vesicle fusion with the cell membrane or other vesicles 2 . A mutation in the STXBP1 gene can result in impairment of psychomotor and neurodevelopmental capabilities 1 . Phenotypically, individuals with STXBP1 gene mutation and disruption of SNARE-complex formation of MUNC-18-1 protein will present with intellectual disability, movement disorders, and epilepsy 3 . Severe early onset epileptic encephalopathies, such as Ohtahara syndrome, West syndrome, and Dravet syndrome are associated with mutations in the MUNC18-1/STXBP1 5 . These encephalopathies are often fatal and are categorized by severe intellectual disability and cerebral dysfunction. Most encephalopathies include incessant epileptic activity that causes decline in cognitive, sensory and/or motor function 5 . STXBP1-related disorders are rare, only 750 cases of individuals diagnosed with an STXBP1 disorder are known worldwide 4 . The incidence of STXBP1 disorder ranges between 3.3-3.8 per 100,000 births and impacts families from various ethnic backgrounds that spans North America, South America, Europe, Africa, and Asia 4 . STXBP1 Summit 2022 ClinChoice had the pleasure of being a Champion Sponsor at the STXBP1 Summit that took place in August of this year. The STXBP1 Summit was an opportunity to learn firsthand from family members who are caregivers of this delicate patient population. The conference offered a bridge between all key stakeholders that are involved in research surrounding STXBP1. The event also provided a unique environment to connect with patients, investigators, researchers, sponsors, and families. The silos that are often found in research were non-existent and everyone was able to freely communicate. This occasion fostered a wealth of information and perspectives to be shared amongst each key stakeholder. At ClinChoice, the experiences as a collective in the research realm have broadened our understanding of research at all levels. Areas of profound recognition include the importance of involvement from rare disease foundations, listening to parents and advocates on how to lessen the burden of participating in a clinical trial, as well as ways to improve trust and increase patient participation and retention. Having these events is important for intrapersonal and interpersonal development and cultivates a community of trust between all key stakeholders participating in research. Current studies and research in STXBP1 STXBP1 studies are still in the early stages of development. Currently there are no approved cures for this disorder. The available therapeutic strategies are centered around treating the symptoms of the disorder, mainly epilepsy 5 . While some children with STXBP1-disorder seizure episodes dissipates approximately 40% of children still have epileptic episodes 6 . The only FDA approved drug that is being used to determine its effects on STXBP1 disorder symptoms is known as Glycerol phenylbutyrate 7 . This drug is used to lower high levels of ammonia in the blood caused by urea cycle disorders 7 . Although glycerol phenylbutyrate is an FDA approved drug it is not approved for STXBP1 disorder indication. Nonetheless studies have shown some reverse to the deficits caused by mutations in the MUNC18-1/STXBP1 in mice models 7 . There are currently clinical trials testing glycerol phenylbutyrate in children to ascertain whether they can observe the same or similar improvements in deficits caused by STXBP1 mutation 8 . In addition to this drug study there are other studies coming in the pipeline which were highlighted at the SXTBP1 Summit such as natural history studies, further exploration in mice models, zebrafish models, and gene therapy research. Researchers, sponsors, and investigators are taking various approaches to furthering the science of STXBP1 that can potentially result in more treatment options and lead to a cure for this disease. Conclusion STXBP1 is a rare disease that phenotypically can present like many neurodevelopmental disorders. The treatments available are more focused on alleviating the symptoms of the disease and are highly centered around seizures. Doctors, sponsors, and researchers from around the world are working diligently to find out more about the STXBP1 disorder. The STXBP1 Summit acts as a vehicle where all stakeholders can share ideas, foster relationships, and cultivate a community of strength, knowledge, and compassion. At ClinChoice, we are working together with these stakeholders to advance science to improve the quality of life of the individuals and families impacted by STXBP1 disorder. The ClinChoice approach to rare disease clinical trials Rare diseases present significant challenges to ongoing studies due to unclear natural history and small sample sizes. To lessen the complications brought by these factors, ClinChoice routinely provides tests combining multiple endpoints. By implementing global tests such as the Wilcoxon Rank Sum test or the O’Brien Test, we are able to supplement the separate analyses for individual endpoints. Providing statistics and programming services for a multitude of rare disease drugs in the past, ClinChoice has extensive experience in rare diseases and strategies for addressing small and widely dispersed sets of patients. This enables us to quickly develop efficient custom processes that can significantly speed up a product’s time to market and ultimately provides safe solutions to those affected. Talk with a specialist today to discuss how ClinChoice can customize solutions for your rare disease clinical trial. About the Author Dr. Tia Warrick is responsible for the project management aspect of clinical trials. She works with sponsors and cross functionally within the ClinChoice team to ensure that all levels of a clinical study are being conducted in accordance with the protocol, ICH and GCP guidelines. In addition, Dr. Warrick acts as a conduit between sponsor, ClinChoice, and site level communications on a global level. About Us: ClinChoice is a leading global Contract Research Organization (CRO), with over 3400 clinical research professionals across North America, Asia, and Europe. For more than 27 years, ClinChoice has been providing high-quality contract research services to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device, and consumer products clients, encompassing a broad range of services and therapeutic areas. ClinChoice offers cutting-edge, full-service solutions for Clinical Trials, Regulatory Affairs, Medical Device Safety, Toxicology, and Medical Affairs. References: 1) https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fphys.2021.775172/full 2) https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/medicine-and-dentistry/munc-18 3) https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32959907/ 4) https://rarediseases.org/rare-diseases/stxbp1-disorders/#:~:text=STXBP1%2Drelated%20disorders%20are%20rare,Rivera%20et%20al%2C%202020 ). 5) https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7812771/ 6) https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/26865513/ 7) https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6162227/ 8) https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04937062 This case study shows a real-world example of ClinChoice implementing FSP... Download ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center - Expanding its North American... View Post This review explores questions and considerations around custom-made, adaptable... Download Want to be the first to know about new blogs and resources? Sign up for our mailing list. Please fill out this form to unlock your download Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/raising-the-standard-of-excellence-in-esubmissions/
Raising the Standard of Excellence in eSubmissions | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Raising the standard of excellence in eSubmissions Raising the standard of excellence in eSubmissions Your download is now available Download November 2, 2022 | By ClinChoice ClinChoice is a CDISC registered solutions provider and a CDISC platinum member with a long history working alongside CDISC. As an early adopter and contributor to CDISC standard development, ClinChoice ensures your clinical data is fully validated and submission ready. Our extensive knowledge and active participation in the field drives efficiency and accuracy while submitting your NDA/BLA. Watch this video to learn more and talk with a specialist to discuss how ClinChoice can support your data package submission. This case study shows a real-world example of ClinChoice implementing FSP... Download ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center - Expanding its North American... View Post This review explores questions and considerations around custom-made, adaptable... Download Want to be the first to know about new blogs and resources? Sign up for our mailing list. Please fill out this form to unlock your download Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/clinical-trials-in-rheumatoid-arthritis-a-statistical-insight/
Clinical Trials in Rheumatoid Arthritis: A Statistical Insight | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Clinical Trials in Rheumatoid Arthritis: A Statistical Insight Clinical Trials in Rheumatoid Arthritis: A Statistical Insight Your download is now available Download August 2, 2022 | By ClinChoice An autoimmune inflammatory disorder, Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) , develops when the body’s immune system attacks healthy cells, resulting in inflammation. RA mainly affects the joints, usually more than one joint simultaneously. As a shock absorber for joints, RA damages the cartilage by uncontrolled inflammation. The result is deformed joints over time. Finally, the bone itself starts to erode. In the aftermath of tissue damage, patients may experience long-term pain, instability, and misalignment of their bodies. Hands, wrists, and knees are commonly affected by this disease. The condition can affect other parts of the body, such as the heart, lungs, skin, and eyes. 1 As of 2021, it was estimated that 350 million people in the world have arthritis (according to the Global RA network ). Since the disease is so endemic, prevention or treatment is incredibly important, and many drugs have been developed to reduce swelling and pain. However, finding a cure for this disorder has been challenging unless the exact cause is determined and unfortunately, clinical trials for drugs designed to address RA are characterized by many challenges. Rheumatoid Arthritis Drugs: challenges in clinical trials Several treatment options for RA can lead to different clinical outcomes. Treatment failure may be correlated with established negative predictive or predisposing factors such as genetic factors, comorbidities, extra-articular symptoms (cardiovascular disease), or pregnancy, among others. These factors plague clinical trials and that present many challenges. Every stage of clinical development must have the safety of patients as the primary focus, even if it isn’t the primary end goal. Hence, choosing the correct sample size, dosage, effectiveness, and other aspects are necessary before starting a clinical trial. Statistical challenges, for the most part, emerge at this point. Having reliable comparators, cautiously selecting study participants, and tracking long-term safety are all important aspects of testing new RA drugs effectively 2 . Every situation must be considered during the trial phases of RA. For example, it may coexist with other conditions or lead to several diseases such as cardiovascular disease. When considering the above example, RA also imposes a broader challenge due to the patient group, making sample size a significant concern. Consequently, there may be dropouts or missing information. Thus, biostatisticians face various challenges during the formulation of the model. The dry run phase could be problematic if the correct data is not entered. Because of this, biostatisticians usually devise alternative strategies. We will take a closer look at the major challenges in developing RA drugs and find out how the biostatisticians are tackling them. Challenge vs. Solution Challenge 1: Multiplicity Issues during the clinical trial An overwhelming amount of trial reports usually do not address multiple testing effectively. Multiplicity involves increasing the type I error rate due to various comparisons, such as comparing subgroups, comparing treatment arms, analyzing multiple results, and analyzing the same results for different intervals of time. Clinical trials have multiple testing problems, which can increase the risk of type I and type II errors, resulting in unexpected interpretation of results. Multiplicity issues should be considered for the initial design, analysis, and interpretation. In RA, multiplicity can occur if the primary endpoint is assessed in more than one way or during interim analyses. It is due to the association of the disorder with several predisposing factors. Consider a group of patients with RA, for example, that have diverse comorbidities; the new drug may have different effects on each patient, resulting in various outcomes 3 . A multiplicity problem arises when multiple hypotheses are tested. It is increasingly likely that at least one valid null hypothesis will be rejected with each new test. When multiplicity is not considered, the chances of at least one null hypothesis being wrongly rejected increase. Multiplicity is one of the reasons regulators are interested in seeing a control plan. Solution: Adjusting Multiplicity A lot of adjustments must be made by expert biostatisticians to resolve multiplicity issues. Here are some approaches to resolve or adjust this matter of concern. Multiple primary endpoints may be considered co-primary endpoints. Co-primary endpoints can be various monitoring measures targeted at different aspects of a disease, strengthening the evidence for treatment effectiveness. As a result, the trial will only be successful if all primary endpoints are tested successfully (every null hypothesis is rejected). Hochberg adjustments with ‘n’ hypotheses is another approach. It requires that the worst performing hypothesis pass. Obtaining success for one test will achieve success for all the others that haven’t been evaluated yet. A more challenging threshold would be applied to the next badly performing hypothesis when a test fails. It’s important to adjust the threshold because it helps to prevent false rejections due to small p-values (less than 5%) occurring by chance 4 . Like the test outlined above, a Holm adjustment approach aims to make passing the most highly performing test challenging. It is followed by a gradual easing of the level of difficulty. One test that fails indicates that all subsequent tests that are not yet assessed have failed as well. Bonferroni correction: This test is specifically designed to evaluate multiple comparators. The main objective is to decrease the error rate in each comparison since it may impact the other results, causing multiple false positives. Bonferroni’s adjustment involves dividing the number of tests by the alpha value (Type-I error) 4 . Among these, we recommend the fixed sequence testing (Using a pre-specified sequence of hypotheses) and the Bonferroni correction model, in which the P value is well-adjusted, as one of the most effective approaches to resolve multiplicity problems. But now that we have tackled the multiplicity issue, we are faced with a major concern: missing information/data. In trials, a large amount of data is collected (especially considering various factors), and it is possible to be lost or missed. How can this be prevented? Challenge 2: Missing Information/data It is common practice to monitor and evaluate a lot of data in RA trials, whether in patient records or published literature. There is always the risk of missing data in clinical research. Nevertheless, they have the potential to diminish the validity of the results. Until recently, statistical methods for dealing with missing data weren’t widely available. When missing data is present, the analysis is usually limited to only complete cases – those with no missing data in any of the variables included in the analysis. These analyses often produce biased results. Moreover, missing data associated with multiple variables often results in a large percentage of the original sample being excluded. It, in turn, reduces the sensitivity and specificity of the analysis. The International Conference on Harmonization (ICH) E9 guidelines state that missing data should be prevented at any cost. It is acknowledged that there is no one solution for rectifying missing data because every design and measurement is different. A sensitivity analysis is suggested, and missing data handling will be defined in the protocol, as well as reasons for revocation. Data can be missing randomly (completely or not) or not random at all. As far as new approaches are concerned, several can be implemented statistically. Solution: Handling Missing Data In order to handle missing data, several approaches are available. Here are some examples 5 : Last observation carried forward (LOCF): After those who have opted out of follow-up investigations, LOCF carries forward their last observation to their last time point. If this approach is used, the carried-forward values can be treated as the observed values for the rest of the observation period. Baseline observation carried forward: It is generally used in trials where the endpoint will return to its baseline value after withdrawal, such as chronic pain in RA trials. Mixed models repeated measures (MMRM): MMRM is preferred for longitudinal continuous outcomes in individually randomized trials. In addition to avoiding model ambiguity, this model is unbiased for missing data absent at random or completely absent at random 6 . Multiple Imputation (MI): Managing missing data using MI is a well-used approach. MI entails calculating multiple probable values and filling in the missing data for each subject with missing data related to a given variable. In turn, multiple completed sets of data are created. It enables the user to properly account for the ambiguity about the true value of imputed variables. Binary variables are imputed using logistic regression models, and continuous variables are imputed using linear regression models 7 . When missing data is present, these are typically the approaches used. As a best practice, we recommend multiple imputations in such cases of missing data. Depending on the kind of data that is missing and the level of complexity of the problem, the model can be tailored to meet the needs of the project. Challenge 3: High Failure Rate/Failing to meet expectations Innovation in RA pharmaceuticals is becoming increasingly challenging and expensive. The recruitment target and timeline of clinical trials often do not adhere to expectations. Time, workforce, funding, and patient pool resources are vital in randomized controlled trials. Despite the availability of these resources, it is important to remember that they are not always plentiful. The price of successfully bringing a breakthrough drug to market is high due to late-stage drug failures and the rising costs of confirmatory or follow-up trials. In traditional clinical trials, predefined elements are used to design the study. Several shortcomings of randomized clinical trials have been noted in addressing factors and variables with rigid models. These trials’ success depends on the quality of their clinical assessments. Unfortunately, they are often inaccurate due to numerous anomalies, multiple endpoints, and missing data. As a result of excessive patient dropouts during the clinical stage, profound changes in design are necessary and mostly unavoidable 8 . Solution: Adaptive Design It is a method of modifying an ongoing trial’s design or statistical procedures during its testing phase in response to variables generated by the trial in question, thus improving the trial’s flexibility. The goal of adaptive clinical trial designs is to make trials more efficient by shortening durations, reducing participant numbers, adjustment/modification of statistical hypotheses, and increasing the likelihood that the drug benefits the trial participants. Also, they effectively address issues related to trial design, for instance, patient variability and relevant treatment effects. Predetermined changes that adaptive designs may permit statistically include: Optimizing the sample size Abstinence from various treatments or doses Allocating patients to trial arms in a different sequence Selecting patients with the highest likelihood of benefiting from recruitment programs Terminating a trial early because of failure or lack of effectiveness Early conclusions are possible to facilitate the development of new, effective drugs To some extent, the FDA and EMEA have demonstrated leadership in implementing adaptive trial design 9 . It’s imperative to follow the guidelines of the FDA/EMEA while implementing an adaptive design Conclusion Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) affects millions of people every year. RA can be effectively treated and managed by following a comprehensive dose regimen and self-management practices. The disease’s complexity presents several challenges in planning a clinical trial. A successful trial requires understanding the perspectives of all stakeholders. Consequently, overcoming these issues is imperative during a trial’s dry run. Hence, the best simulation models are used to achieve optimal results. Experts develop strategies or design principles that combine experience and modern solutions to bring novel RA drugs to market in compliance with upcoming guidelines. With the right models, development timelines can be shortened, and transitions between phases can be seamless. Many prerequisites need to be in place to increase the likelihood of successful trials. It includes: Expert biostatisticians with broad experience in statistical analysis, especially adaptive design Staff with clinical research experience to efficiently integrate cutting-edge strategies/solutions into the research and trial timeline A centralized infrastructure for performing a deep literature analysis and leveraging resources to the fullest Regulatory analyst interpreting and implementing newly introduced or updated guidelines for advanced modeling About the Authors Deepak Manohar; Associate Director, Biostatistics As an experienced biostatistician in the clinical development industry, Deepak has been working with clinical trials, biologics, biomarkers, and regulatory studies for several years. He has also formulated comprehensive statistical analysis plans, worked with large databases, and supervised teams in a collaborative environment. He specializes in SPSS, SAS, and programming languages to perform Statistical Analysis. Shrutimita Pokhariyal; Principal Biostatistician Shrutimita has worked in the pharmaceutical industry as a biostatistician expert in statistics and statistical programming for many years. She specializes in Electronic Data Capture (EDC), Clinical Data Management, Good Clinical Practices (GCP), CDISC Standards, and Data Analysis. At the moment, she is involved in numerous leading studies. About Us: ClinChoice is a leading global Contract Research Organization (CRO) with over 3400 clinical research professionals across North America, Asia, and Europe. For more than 27 years, ClinChoice has provided high-quality contract research services to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device, and consumer products clients, encompassing a broad range of services and therapeutic areas. References: 1) https://www.cdc.gov/arthritis/basics/rheumatoid-arthritis.html 2) https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31059844/ 3) https://academic.oup.com/ije/article/46/2/746/2741997 4) https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5506159/ 5) https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2714692/ 6) https://rdcu.be/cMYq0 7) https://www.onlinecjc.ca/article/S0828-282X(20)31111-9/fulltext 8) https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6649924/ 9) https://bmcmedicine.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12916-018-1017-7 This case study shows a real-world example of ClinChoice implementing FSP... Download ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center - Expanding its North American... View Post This review explores questions and considerations around custom-made, adaptable... Download Want to be the first to know about new blogs and resources? Sign up for our mailing list. Please fill out this form to unlock your download Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/regulatory-submission-of-generic-drugs-in-canada-best-practices/
Regulatory Submission of Generic Drugs in Canada | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Regulatory Submission of Generic Drugs in Canada – Best Practices Regulatory Submission of Generic Drugs in Canada – Best Practices Your download is now available Download July 12, 2022 | By ClinChoice The development of a generic drug is very different from that of an innovative drug with a novel chemical composition. It must be sufficiently comparable to the latter to determine whether a generic drug is therapeutically equivalent to an innovator product. To be market-effective, drug companies must develop generic drugs that achieve the same level of therapeutic safety, efficacy, and functionality as branded drugs 1 . The Canadian Health Authority (Health Canada ) seeks to increase the availability of generic drugs to make them more affordable, safe, and accessible. Currently, generic drugs receive approvals 15 to 20 times more often than new drugs. Health Canada’s Health Products and Food Branch (HPFB) regulates, evaluates, and monitors the safety, efficacy, and quality therapeutic and diagnostic products available to the public. Several guidelines explain to what extent data must be provided before Health Canada approves a drug. As a result, for a generic drug to be approved and introduced on the market, a submission must be made to the HPFB. Upon a positive review by the HPFB, the generic drug is granted a Notice of Compliance (NOC) and a Drug Identification Number (DIN). A crucial component of regulatory approval of the generic drug is the Abbreviated New Drug Submission (ANDS) process 2 . Abbreviated New Drugs Submission: The Pathway to Generic Drug Approval A sponsor must submit an ANDS if a generic version of a previously approved drug is deemed ‘pharmacologically equivalent’ or ‘bioequivalent’ to the Canadian Reference Product (CRP). The following criteria must be met in accordance with the FDA Regulations (FDR) to file an ANDS: The generic drug is bioequivalent or pharmaceutically equivalent to the Canadian Reference Product (CRP) The generic drug has the same medicinal ingredients, in the same amount, with the same dosage form as the CRP The generic drug is administered by the same route as that of CRP 2 There may be differences in non-medicinal ingredients (excipients) between generic drugs and CRPs. However, the company must demonstrate that these differences do not affect the generic drug’s safety, efficacy, or quality. Although these are the main points to remember, there are also many other aspects to consider for the successful approval of an ANDS. Generic Drug Submission in Canada: Common Pitfalls to Avoid A generic drug submission, or ANDS, goes through the same review process as a brand-name drug submission. The following points should be considered when filling out the ANDS to avoid common mistakes. Suitable studies should be conducted to design and test a generic drug. A generic drug must meet all national and international patent and data protection requirements. ANDS cannot be submitted before a patent expires or a manufacturer challenges it 2 . The generic drug must comply with current laws and regulations and follow the recommendations laid out in Health Canada’s guidance documents 3 . Certified Product Information Document – Chemical Entities (CPID-CE) must accompany the original submission of an ANDS, which will help the Review Division reserve, plan, and allocate the necessary resources 3 . A bioequivalence study between the generic drug and CRP must be conducted per Health Canada’s recommendations. Foreign sourced reference products could be used instead of CRP if the following conditions are met 4 . The foreign-sourced reference product is approved by a comparable regulatory authority (US, EU, Japan, Australia, Switzerland). The same innovator company markets foreign-sourced reference products. Comparative in vitro studies between CRP and foreign-sourced reference products are submitted. Other conditions laid down in the Health Canada guidance document are met 4 . If the generic drug is intended to be imported into Canada, then the importer in Canada should be identified well in advance. The establishment license of the importer in Canada must list the foreign manufacturing sites of drug substance and drug product. Non-medicinal ingredients, shape, size, and color of a generic drug, can differ from CRP as long as it is bioequivalent to the CRP. All generic drugs must adhere to regulatory guidelines for good manufacturing practices in their manufacturing processes and facilities. Each drug batch must also undergo both pre-and post-production tests to meet its intended use 5 . Conclusion Generic drugs have a large market potential in Canada, and it is expected to grow exponentially in the coming years. Multinational pharmaceutical companies and small companies can expand their generic drug portfolios in the Canadian generic drug market. Marketing authorizations denied by the HPFB can be supplemented, resubmitted with new information, or have the decision reviewed. Several best practices are recommended for ANDS that will aid the approval of generic drugs: To ensure that the technical information meets the requirements of Health Canada, a gap analysis should be performed. Attestation checklists are an important part of the ANDS screening process to help sponsors ensure that their submissions are complete and include all of the necessary information. The quality part of the ANDS must comply with Health Canada’s recommendations. Compliance with guidance documents on recent topics e.g., nitrosamine impurities, and elemental impurities should be ensured 3 . Before submitting an ANDS application, all manufacturing facilities should be ready for inspection. The original ANDS must include a detailed justification, including supporting data, of why they use an alternative bioequivalence method to those recommended in the relevant product-specific guidance. For maximum success, ANDS submission strategies and guidance on risk mitigation plans should be tailored as per Health Canada requirements 6 . About The Author Guriqbal Sigh is responsible for the execution and sourcing of regulatory product licenses on a regional and/or national scale. He works with clients and business partners in order to facilitate regulatory submissions by managing projects with supporting documents and samples. In addition, he maintains compliance with applicable regulatory obligations while ensuring milestones are met. About Us ClinChoice is a leading global Contract Research Organization (CRO), with over 3400 clinical research professionals across North America, Asia, and Europe. For more than 27 years, ClinChoice has been providing high-quality contract research services to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device, and consumer products clients, encompassing a broad range of services and therapeutic areas. ClinChoice offers cutting-edge, full-service solutions for Clinical Trials, Regulatory Affairs, Medical Device Safety, Toxicology, and Medical Affairs. 1) https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3555014/ 2) https://www.canada.ca/en/health-canada/services/drugs-health-products/drug-products/fact-sheets/access-to-generic-drugs.html 3) https://www.canada.ca/en/health-canada/services/drugs-health-products/drug-products/applications-submissions/guidance-documents/chemical-entity-products-quality/guidance-document-quality-chemistry-manufacturing-guidance-new-drug-submissions-ndss-abbreviated-new-drug-submissions.html 4) Microsoft Word – canadian-reference-product-guidance.docx (canada.ca) 5) https://www.canada.ca/en/health-canada/services/healthy-living/your-health/medical-information/safety-effectiveness-generic-drugs.html 6) https://www.canada.ca/en/health-canada/services/drugs-health-products/drug-products/applications-submissions/forms/notice-updated-screening-criteria-generic-drug-submissions.html This case study shows a real-world example of ClinChoice implementing FSP... Download ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center - Expanding its North American... View Post This review explores questions and considerations around custom-made, adaptable... Download Want to be the first to know about new blogs and resources? Sign up for our mailing list. Please fill out this form to unlock your download Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/whats-it-like-working-for-clinchoice/
What's it like working for ClinChoice? - ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » What’s it like working for ClinChoice? Your download is now available Download July 7, 2022 | By ClinChoice ClinChoice strives to set the Standard of Excellence, but such ambition is not achieved alone. The largest contributors to ClinChoice’s success are the people that help support the company’s mission. Watch now and take a look at why ClinChoice’s longstanding employees value the company just as much as ClinChoice values them. This case study shows a real-world example of ClinChoice implementing FSP... Download ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center - Expanding its North American... View Post This review explores questions and considerations around custom-made, adaptable... Download Want to be the first to know about new blogs and resources? Sign up for our mailing list. Please fill out this form to unlock your download Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/clinchoice-raises-150-mm-series-e-round-financing-further-strengthening-its-global-services-capabilities/
ClinChoice Raises $150 mm Series E Round Financing, Further Strengthening its Global Services Capabilities - ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » ClinChoice Raises $150 mm Series E Round Financing, Further Strengthening its Global Services Capabilities ClinChoice Raises $150 mm Series E Round Financing, Further Strengthening its Global Services Capabilities Your download is now available Download July 5, 2022 | By ClinChoice ClinChoice Raises $150 mm Series E Round Financing, Further Strengthening its Global Services Capabilities PHILADELPHIA , July 5, 2022 /PRNewswire/ — Recently, ClinChoice announced the successful completion of its $150 mm Series E round financing. The investment was led by Legend Capital, and co-invested by Taikang Life Insurance, Sherpa Healthcare Partners and existing shareholders, including Lilly Asia Ventures and Apricot Capital. Proceeds of the financing will be used to fund the Company’s continued business expansion and innovative service offering worldwide. As a full service clinical-stage CRO, ClinChoice serves the global market by providing integrated one-stop clinical development services to emerging biopharmaceutical, medical device and consumer health clients around the world. ClinChoice has over 3000 employees worldwide covering most of drug development hotbeds in US, China , multiple countries in Europe and Southeast Asia . With over 25 years of high-quality services, ClinChoice has completed more than 1,000 Phase I-IV full-service clinical projects and supported over 100 innovative drug registrations, clinical design and development. ClinChoice strictly adheres to GCP and ICH standards and has developed robust SOPs recognized by more than 50 large multinational companies, all of which have passed multiple inspections and audits by major regulatory agencies around the world. According to the Global Chairman and CEO of ClinChoice, Mr. Ling ZHEN , “We thank the investors for their trust in ClinChoice. This round of capital investment fully validates ClinChoice’s rapid growth and future potential in the field of clinical CRO. With the new round of financing, we will further enhance our innovative service offering and continue business expansion by organic growth and M&A, in order to better serve our clients worldwide.” Dr. Hongbin ZHOU, Co-Chief Investment Officer of Legend Capital , said, “We would like to express our gratitude for trusting in Legend Capital and we are excited to be part of ClinChoice, together with the Management Team and the existing shareholders, including Lilly Asia Ventures, Goldman Sachs. We are very positive on the growth outlook of the CRO industry. As a rapidly growing CRO, ClinChoice has built an excellent platform combining global expertise with deep knowhow across key local markets, to support innovation. Going forward, we will work closely with the management team to improve its existing business, attract industry talent and launch new strategic initiatives.” About ClinChoice ClinChoice is a global clinical CRO, providing high-quality Integrated One-stop Service Offerings for new bio-pharmaceutical and medical device clients worldwide. Our Service Offerings cover Clinical Operation, Project Management, Biostatistics, Data Management, Biostatistical Programming, Regulatory Affairs, Medical Affairs, Feasibility Research, HGRAC Submission, Clinical Safety Management, Site Management Organization, Nature Medicine/Traditional Chinese Medicine and Phase I Clinical Research, etc. Now, ClinChoice has over 3,000 employees worldwide covering most of drug development hotbeds in US, China , multiple countries in Europe and Southeast Asia . Since its inception, ClinChoice has completed multiple rounds of financing, with investments from renowned institutional investors including Goldman Sachs, Lilly Asia Ventures, and DFJ Dragon Fund. About Legend Capital In April 2001 , Legend Capital was established as a fund manager under Legend Holdings, focusing on the early-stage VC and growth-stage PE investment. Since its establishment, Legend Capital has been adhereing to internationally accepted standards to create best practices in fund management and operation. With a proven track record of more than 20 years, it now has full experience in fund management and operation and has built an extensive partner ecosystem across the entire investment chain. Legend Capital goes the extra mile in delivering proactive value-added services to help portfolio companies drive innovations. We are committed to promoting industrial progress and social development, while securing high returns across various fields. Our vision is to become an investment firm with global influence. We live and breathe our core value of Pursuing Fortune with Integrity to fulfill our corporate social responsibility. In 2019, Legend Capital signed the UN-supported Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), intended to take responsible investing as a long-term strategy to practice sustainable development and green finance philosoph y. This case study shows a real-world example of ClinChoice implementing FSP... Download ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center - Expanding its North American... View Post This review explores questions and considerations around custom-made, adaptable... Download Want to be the first to know about new blogs and resources? Sign up for our mailing list. Please fill out this form to unlock your download Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/dia-2022-recap/
DIA 2022 Recap - ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » DIA 2022 Recap DIA 2022 Recap Your download is now available Download June 30, 2022 | By ClinChoice After many months of planning and anticipation, DIA 2022 in Chicago finally arrived. For the first time in over 2 years, colleagues, partners, and friends gathered at the Drug Information Association conference in person. And then, seemingly in the blink of an eye, the conference was over! Here are some key takeaways from ClinChoice: Technology: Clinical technology continues to evolve and improve at an exponential pace. Featuring a wide range of solutions including EDC, ePro/eCOA, eConsent, enrollment trackers and televisits, eTMF, CTMS, data automation, data visualization and more, technology was one of the hottest topics at DIA 2022. Emerging tech in virtual reality and blockchain was also being discussed. This year’s show featured a virtual reality demonstration that was simply stunning. ClinChoice caught up with several of our valued technology partners including Medidata, Veeva, Calyx, Cloudbyz and SAS. Decentralized trials: One of the buzzwords of the clinical development world in 2022, conversations and speaker sessions surrounding the topic of decentralized clinical trials were featured early and often. While we noticed some healthy debate over the risk of the DCT format, one thing is certain: this topic is not going away. Companies will continue to invest in improving and optimizing the decentralized clinical trial model, with the goal of providing added accessibility to patients without compromising safety and efficacy. Leveraging partnerships: CROs, Sponsors, and clinical technology companies continue to realize the value of partnering with one another to achieve the common goal of offering the highest quality clinical solutions possible. Every company has different core competencies, so it only makes sense to leverage our strengths for the overall benefit of faster, more efficient, and higher quality drug development. This bodes well with this year’s DIA conference theme of “Innovation through Collaboration!” We are all in this together. Final thoughts: Having the chance to come together and collaborate in person offered a sense of optimism that has rarely been felt since the COVID-19 pandemic began. Smiles were abundant throughout the conference, and the overall mood was extremely friendly and cheerful. The pandemic created one of the most challenging times in recent human history. How we learn from the past and improve is what counts. We at ClinChoice are more optimistic about the future of drug development than ever! This case study shows a real-world example of ClinChoice implementing FSP... Download ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center - Expanding its North American... View Post This review explores questions and considerations around custom-made, adaptable... Download Want to be the first to know about new blogs and resources? Sign up for our mailing list. Please fill out this form to unlock your download Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/leveraging-technology-effectively-in-clinical-research/
Leveraging Technology Effectively in Clinical Research | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Leveraging Technology Effectively in Clinical Research Leveraging Technology Effectively in Clinical Research Your download is now available Download June 9, 2022 | By ClinChoice Clinical research is a rapidly evolving field. As technologies improve and advanced capabilities become accessible, new tools, methodologies, and processes also emerge. Depending on the area of research, size, target demographics, and other factors, these new technologies can help improve efficiency, accuracy, speed, and the quality of data gathered and analyzed. A key element of any CRO’s overall strategy should be to explore the leading edge of what’s possible in clinical research. Today’s tech-driven solutions help monitor and leverage real-world evidence (RWE) and real-world data (RWD) to provide the clearest and most accurate courses to evaluate patient treatments and guide the development of new medical interventions and therapies. These tools allow a CRO to quickly and easily receive patient consent for data sharing and gathering, and help parse, filter, and manage data effectively as it’s imported from a given trial. In this blog, we’re exploring the key elements of leveraging technology effectively in clinical research . A CRO that Explores the Best Tech Options for You To put it simply, there’s no one-size-fits-all solution to clinical research technology. Experienced CROs start with a big-picture strategy that will meet your specific needs. Then, hone in on determining the exact technologies and systems to optimize your research and enable success. As the client, you shouldn’t need to make any costly technology overhauls or train staff to learn complex new technologies and software. In a managed service model, your CRO will recommend and implement the technologies that suit the exact specifications and budget of the trial. You should also receive a full assessment of a project’s budget, scope, and schedule and makes recommendations accordingly. The most trusted CROs are committed to helping clients make the most of their time and money and make a concerted effort to recommend only those solutions that are truly worth your investment. The point is to not only help you achieve your goals but to do so cost-effectively. Leading CROs offer expert assistance from day one to answer questions and share their knowledge whenever you need it. From application management to validation to business accelerator development, you get end-to-end support for the solutions and best practices that empower you to achieve more, sooner. Sifting Through Tech Trends in Clinical Research Just about every new technology promises to “revolutionize the industry.” With so many options to sift through, pursuing the most appropriate ones can be costly and frequently still leads only to insufficient and suboptimal solutions. It’s important to note that an honest, reputable CRO will never push the newest, most expensive technologies on you in every situation. The most effective CROs work to understand new and emerging technologies so they can always recommend what is best for the client, based wholly on a complete understanding of their objectives, needs, and limitations. Common Tools Used in Clinical Operations Engagements At the heights of the COVID-19 pandemic, the clinical research industry rapidly pivoted toward decentralized and virtual or siteless trials to try and get back on track after so many delays. Fortunately, we have the technology to empower new methodologies, and these trials bear many benefits. Patients no longer need to travel, eliminating a significant burden for many, and patient consent and opt-in processes have been completely streamlined and simplified. Siteless trials also minimize health risks for all patients involved, many of whom have conditions that heighten their vulnerability to disease. Some of the prominent technologies leveraged today include: • Clinical Trial Training Platforms (eLearning) Virtual clinical trials lack onsite training management, but the flexibility of on-demand learning with a clinical trial training platform enables easily scalable training programs that help reduce risk. • Electronic Data Capture (EDC) EDC platforms enable patients to enter information remotely and secure all participant information and trial data in one place. • Clinical Trial Management System (CTMS) A CTMS is a project management tool tailored to individual clinical operations programs. As the need for virtual and decentralized clinical trial management has exploded, a CTMS is invaluable for managing contacts, documents, calendars, monitoring, site activities, payments, workflows, and much more in a centralized platform. • Electronic Trial Master File (eTMF) The eTMF houses all vital documentation about your clinical trial and provides a clear regulatory overview. • eConsent eConsent solutions offer simple and compliant electronic signature processes with support for media like images, videos, infographics, and more to aid user comprehension. • Electronic Clinical Outcome Assessment (eCOA and ePRO) eCOAs enable clinicians, patients, and site staff to easily input outcomes into the digital system. An ePRO is one type of eCOA that provides outcomes entry data for multiple stakeholders, while ePRO is only for patients. • Supply Management Supply management platforms help with the movement, tracking, and monitoring of all trial materials administered to and received from patients. It manages supply inventory, reordering, and related data management. • Patient Management Software Various software platforms to help simplify, streamline, and optimize patient management throughout clinical trials include: o Electronic Health Record Mining o Televisit Platforms o Patient Engagement o Virtual Site Monitoring Getting Started with the Right CRO There are still a lot of challenges as the industry continues to deploy decentralized, hybrid, and entirely virtual clinical trials. Technology has become the cornerstone for most of our research today, and these clinical trial technology solutions make the process much easier, but the biggest decision you’ll have to make is who you trust as your CRO. There’s a lot to consider when it comes to choosing the right CRO, but making the right choice doesn’t have to be intimidating. With decades of proven quality and results in 30+ therapeutic areas, ClinChoice helps large and small pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies with a flexible approach and dedicated teams who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Talk with a specialist today and remove the guesswork from choosing the right CRO technologies and partnerships. This case study shows a real-world example of ClinChoice implementing FSP... Download ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center - Expanding its North American... View Post This review explores questions and considerations around custom-made, adaptable... Download Want to be the first to know about new blogs and resources? Sign up for our mailing list. Please fill out this form to unlock your download Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/clinchoice-names-calyx-preferred-partner-for-medical-imaging-irt-and-edc/
ClinChoice Names Calyx Preferred Partner for Medical Imaging, IRT, and EDC - ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » ClinChoice Names Calyx Preferred Partner for Medical Imaging, IRT, and EDC ClinChoice Names Calyx Preferred Partner for Medical Imaging, IRT, and EDC Your download is now available Download March 7, 2022 | By ClinChoice Depth and diversity of Calyx scientific and technical teams’ experience extended to ClinChoice’s worldwide clients NOTTINGHAM, England and MORRISVILLE, N.C., March 7, 2022 /PRNewswire/ — Calyx, the eClinical and Regulatory solutions and services provider relied on for solving complex data challenges in clinical research, today announced it has been named a preferred provider of medical imaging and eClinical solutions by ClinChoice, a leading full-service clinical research organization (CRO). “We chose to partner with Calyx due to their tenured scientific, medical, and technical teams who possess a depth and diversity of experience in providing reliable data outcomes,” said Tiepu Liu – President, Global Biometrics, ClinChoice. “We’re pleased to name Calyx a preferred partner and know our customers will benefit from their proven approach to optimizing clinical research.” ClinChoice is committed to providing deep domain experience through reliable partnerships in support of clinical research trials around the world. As part of this partnership, ClinChoice will offer Calyx’s Medical Imaging and eClinical solutions to their pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device, and consumer product clients. “We’re honored that ClinChoice chose to partner with Calyx,” said John Blakeley, Chief Commercial Officer of Calyx. “We look forward to a long relationship and to delivering the high-quality solutions and reliable services their worldwide customers have come to expect from this leading CRO.” Click here for more information on how CROs – and their clients – benefit from partnering with Calyx. About Calyx Through innovative eClinical and Regulatory solutions and services, Calyx turns the uncertain into the reliable, helping bring new medical treatments to market reliably. With deep expertise in clinical development and 30 years supporting trial sponsors and clinical research organizations, Calyx harnesses its intelligence and experience to solve complex problems, deliver fast insights, and get new drugs to market every day. CTMS | EDC | IRT | Medical Imaging | RIM Take your trials further with intelligent insights at Calyx.ai or at LinkedIn , Twitter , or Facebook . Logo – https://mma.prnewswire.com/media/1396338/Calyx_Logo.jpg SOURCE Calyx This case study shows a real-world example of ClinChoice implementing FSP... Download ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center - Expanding its North American... View Post This review explores questions and considerations around custom-made, adaptable... Download Want to be the first to know about new blogs and resources? Sign up for our mailing list. Please fill out this form to unlock your download Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/rare-diseases/
Rare Diseases | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Rare Diseases Rare Diseases Your download is now available Download January 13, 2022 | By ClinChoice How rare are rare diseases? The Orphan Drug Act defines a rare disease as a disease or condition that affects less than 200,000 people in the United States. Therefore, the odds of being affected by one individual rare disease is relatively low. However, when looking at all rare diseases under one umbrella, the odds drastically increase. Ten percent of Americans are affected by any rare disease. While this may seem like a strikingly high percentage, perhaps this next statistic is even more alarming: Ninety-five percent of known rare diseases do not have a drug approved for treatment. The need to develop novel drugs and therapies to treat those suffering from rare diseases is more important than ever. Sources: https://www.phrma.org/resource-center/progress-in-fighting-rare-diseases Cooner, F., Williamson, F, & Carlin, B.P, (2020). Bayesian Frameworks for Rare Disease Clinical Development Programs. In E. Lesaffre, G.Baio, & B.Boulanger (Eds.), Bayesian Methods in Pharmaceutical Research (pp. 244). CRC Press. Rare Diseases by the Numbers: There are currently over 500 rare disease drugs in clinical development. The below chart shows a breakdown of these rare disease drugs by therapeutic area: Source: https://www.phrma.org/resource-center/progress-in-fighting-rare-diseases The demand for rare disease prescriptions has steadily increased since 2016 and is expected to continue rising for years. There are many reasons to be optimistic about the future of rare disease drug development. Opportunities for better and faster development include the 1983 Orphan Drug Act, FDA expedited programs for serious conditions and advocacy groups. Due in part to these opportunities, there have been many noteworthy advances in rare disease drug development. Advancements include developing the first treatments of cystic fibrosis, significant advances in targeted therapies for many forms of blood cancer, and developing the first treatments for batten disease, a rare pediatric condition. ClinChoice Contribution to Rare Disease Drug Development ClinChoice has provided statistics and programming services for a multitude of rare disease drugs and is familiar with the methodologies aiming to lessen the complications caused by unclear natural history and small sample size. We routinely provide tests of totality of evidence combining multiple endpoints. Global tests such as Wilcoxon Rank Sum test, O’Brien Test, and Composite Subject-Level Response analyses supplement the separate analyses for individual endpoints. The evidence of treatment effect is explored by both quantification and qualification of endpoint measures. Different simulations compare methods for the parameter of interest based on bias, mean square error, Type 1 error, and statistical power. Rare Disease Day Each year, ClinChoice recognizes Rare Disease Day to raise awareness. In 2022, Rare Disease Day is on February 28 th . Our mission at ClinChoice is to contribute to a healthier and safer world by accelerating the development and commercialization of innovative drugs and devices. Let’s work together to make the world a better place by ending suffering for rare disease patients. Rare Disease Days | Awareness and Education Campaigns Brings together patients and their families, policy makers, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical representatives, legislators, regulators, and researchers Last day of February This case study shows a real-world example of ClinChoice implementing FSP... Download ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center - Expanding its North American... View Post This review explores questions and considerations around custom-made, adaptable... Download Want to be the first to know about new blogs and resources? Sign up for our mailing list. Please fill out this form to unlock your download Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/why-should-programmers-join-clinchoice/
Why should programmers join ClinChoice? - ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Why should programmers join ClinChoice? Why should programmers join ClinChoice? Your download is now available Download December 8, 2021 | By ClinChoice We have a diverse client base who develop lifechanging medical devices, vaccines, and other products. Our enriching work environment offers programmers exposure to a wide range of clients, scientific areas, geographic settings, and a highly talented, multicultural team. Watch now to learn more about our industry-leading team, exceptional leadership, remote or hybrid work model, and strong company culture. This case study shows a real-world example of ClinChoice implementing FSP... Download ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center - Expanding its North American... View Post This review explores questions and considerations around custom-made, adaptable... Download Want to be the first to know about new blogs and resources? Sign up for our mailing list. Please fill out this form to unlock your download Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/what-is-the-vision-of-the-biometrics-bu-in-2022/
What is the vision of the Biometrics BU in 2022? - ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » What is the vision of the Biometrics BU in 2022? What is the vision of the Biometrics BU in 2022? Your download is now available Download December 2, 2021 | By ClinChoice With the backing of exciting new investors, ClinChoice is charting a new course that combines our expertise and ambition to aid the continuous development and monitoring of new drugs, devices, and vaccines. Listen to Mahesh Mudnur – President, Asia-Pacific, and Sridhar Punniamurthi – Director, Statistical Programming, as they share their vision for the Biometrics group in 2022. This case study shows a real-world example of ClinChoice implementing FSP... Download ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center - Expanding its North American... View Post This review explores questions and considerations around custom-made, adaptable... Download Want to be the first to know about new blogs and resources? Sign up for our mailing list. Please fill out this form to unlock your download Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/improving-data-analysis-operations-through-data-science-technology-innovation/
https://clinchoice.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/Improving-Data-and-Analysis-Operations.pdf
Improving Data and Analysis Operations  through data science and technology  innovation Tiepu Liu, MD, PhD President, Global Biometrics The Standard of Excellence © 2021 ClinChoice –Confidential and All Rights Reserved  © 2020 ClinChoice –Confidential and All Rights Reserved Outline •Data and Analysis Operations  •Needs •Challenges •How Data Science Services & Technology Help? •Data warehouse  •Data standardization •Analysis and reporting© 2021 ClinChoice –Confidential and All Rights Reserved  © 2020 ClinChoice –Confidential and All Rights Reserved Data and Analysis Operations Study Setup •CRF design •data management plan •data validation •database design and  programming •EDC site support Study Conduct •Coding •SAE reconciliation •data transfer •ongoing review Study Close Out •DBL, archival EDC Systems •Medidata Rave •Oracle Inform •Medrio •OpenClinica •Veeva• Power / Sample Size  Estimation/ Protocol  Development • Randomization  • Statistical Analysis  Plan • TLF Shells • Interim Analysis /  DMC Support • Statistical Modeling  and Simulation • Clinical Study Report  • Statistical Report • Annual Report (DSUR  and PSUR) • Observational  Studies, RWE,  and  HEOR and Payer  Analysis • Publications Data Management  Biostatistics Data Science and  Technology Statistical Programming • Data server and  security, cloud  storage and  computing  infrastructure • Middleware platform • System connector  and dynamic data  integration • RWD, Data  standardization,  integration and  repository • Data model,  visualization, and  dashboard reporting • AI/ML, system and  process automation  and big data analytics • Python, R tools and  library• CRF, SAP Review and  Inputs • SDTM Data Package  Preparation • ADaM Data Package  Preparation • PK/PD Dataset  Preparation • Integrated SDTM/ ADaM Data Packages  (ISS/ISE/ISI) Preparation • Office of Scientific  Investigation ( clinsite.xpt ,  define.xml, reviewers  guide and OSI listings) • Patient Profiles • Data Exploration and  Programming  Automation 3 FSP FSP Models •Staff Augmentation Model •Managed Staffing Model •Full Outsourcing FSP Model •Hybrid Model Experience •Multiple major FSP providers,  unitized model​ •Selected Clients, FTE model​ •Inhouse staff and  subcontractors​ •DM, Statistics, and  Programming​ •Safety and Regulatory, mostly  offshore​ FSP Management •Internal dedicated FSP group​ •Engagement team, account  managers​ •Resource managers​ •HR recruiter team​ •Database and agency network 3© 2021 ClinChoice –Confidential and All Rights Reserved Data Operations Challenges •Data Quality •Data Management •Risk Management •Complexity •Tedious, manual •Time, Cost and Efficiency 4© 2021 ClinChoice –Confidential and All Rights Reserved Protocol/CRFs/Database/Edit Checks Randomization/SAP Tables, Listings and Figures (TLFs) ShellsDatabase Specifications ADaM  Programming Validate TLFs by  Independent ProgrammingProgram TLFs Statistical Review/Checking TLFs Draft TLFs, DRM  Database Lock Final TLFs, CSRSDTM  ProgrammingValidationData and Analysis Process and Challenges 5© 2021 ClinChoice –Confidential and All Rights Reserved  © 2020 ClinChoice –Confidential and All Rights Reserved How Data Science Services & Technology Help? •Data Connection •Automatic connect (API) and dynamic update •Data warehouse and standardization •CDISC and CDASH •SEND/SDTM/ADaM •Analytics •Data visualization •Analysis and Reporting •TLFs 6© 2021 ClinChoice –Confidential and All Rights Reserved General Data Science Services & Technology 7Data  Integration Data Connector Data Transformation Data PublisherData  Visualization EDC/Study /External  Data Support Dashboard in UI Patient Profile,  Study/Site,  Sponsor/TAData Process and Analytics Data Model Data Prediction Data MonitoringData  Warehouse Big Data Warehouse BI IntegrationTechnology AI/ML NLP Analytics Engine Statistics Analysis  Tools Programming  Languages© 2021 ClinChoice –Confidential and All Rights Reserved  © 2020 ClinChoice –Confidential and All Rights Reserved Software & Technology Portfolio •Biometrics •SAS for statistical programming •SAS Libraries, Python/R packages •Statistical planning and analysis systems/packages •Data Science •Data Capture and Process -Python, R, SAS, Java •Data Visualization & Reporting  –PowerBI, Spotfire, Tableau, Matplotlib, Plotly •Data Warehouse/Data Lake –Azure Data Warehouse & Data Lake, Snowflake, Amazon Redshift,   Apache HIVE •Data Analytics -Apache Spark, Azure Synapse Analytics •AI & ML -Scikit -Learn, Pandas, AutoML , NLP , etc. 8 Data Science Services & Technology Applications Data Warehouse and Standardization 9© 2021 ClinChoice –Confidential and All Rights Reserved Data Process Framework •Integrated Data  Science Framework •Consolidated Data  Sources •Process Pipeline and  Automation •Security &  Compliance •Integrated Tools 10 © 2021 ClinChoice –Confidential and All Rights Reserved Data Standardization •eCRF Library and Builder •SDTM Mapping •aCRF Annotation/Bookmark  Generator •Use DM Spec as Input •Automatically Locate/Insert  Annotation •Support Customized Annotation  styles •Support Complex Bookmark  Structure  11 Data Science Services & Technology Applications Data Visualization 12© 2021 ClinChoice –Confidential and All Rights Reserved Data Visualization Applications •Data visualization  •Graphic representation of data,  •Both an art and a science •Better Analysis •Telling a story through data •Interactive & Customizable  •Handling large amounts of data in a visual format •Finding errors/causes •Identifying patterns  •Grasping the latest trends •Signal Detection and Decision Making •Revealing previously unnoticed key points •Exploring business insights •Assisting decision making •Quick action 13 © 2021 ClinChoice –Confidential and All Rights Reserved Data Visualization Features •General Features •Integrated Framework –EDC, Safety, Cloud Storage Excel Files, Raw/SDTM/ADaM Datasets •Full Automation, Near Real Time Data •Interactive & Customizable •Data Integrity -Finding errors/causes •Assisting Decision Making •Better Budget Control •Enhanced Features •Complicated charts with Python/R •Support variable mappings to apply multiple studies –efficiency •Powerful navigation -Drill down & Drill up capability  •User defined filters •User defined charts •Reporting capabilities •Alerts 14© 2021 ClinChoice –Confidential and All Rights Reserved Data Visualization in Clinical Development 15 Patient Profile •Individual View •Group View •Customized View •Reports Project Summary •PD Report •DM Metrics •Summary View •Group View •Customized View Risk Based Monitoring (RBM) •KPI •KRI •Reports© 2021 ClinChoice –Confidential and All Rights Reserved Individual Patient Profile •Individual View •DM •Disposition •EX •MH •VS •LAB •AE •Drill Down •Figure •Table/Listing •Customized View 16 © 2021 ClinChoice –Confidential and All Rights Reserved  © 2020 ClinChoice –Confidential and All Rights Reserved Dynamic Patient Profile 17Data Science Services & Technology Applications Project Profile –Study Dashboard and RBM 18© 2021 ClinChoice –Confidential and All Rights Reserved Project Profile –Dynamic Status Dashboard 19 © 2021 ClinChoice –Confidential and All Rights Reserved  © 2020 ClinChoice –Confidential and All Rights Reserved Risk Based Monitoring Plan with KRI/KPI •Risk Based Monitoring Implementation •Assessment -Collecting KRIs (Key Risk Indicator) / KPIs (Key Performance Indicator) •KRI/KPI Identification with Category/Sub -Category •Data Quality/Compliance/Safety/CRA Workload/Issue Management … •KRI/KPI Level & Threshold •Level of Scrutiny •KRI/KPI Measure •Risk Control Options •Design -Determine Data Sources, Data Presentation, Data Process Flow and Communication •Implementation -Develop Monitoring Function/Flow on Data Science Platform and BI Tools •Integration to Various Data Sources •Integration to BI Tool •Data Process Flow with Automation •System Configuration •Continuous Improvement of Monitoring 20© 2021 ClinChoice –Confidential and All Rights Reserved  © 2020 ClinChoice –Confidential and All Rights Reserved Risk Based Monitoring Approach  •Data Visualization for Data Quality and Risks with Frontend BI Tool •Risk/Performance Assessment Implemented in Backend Middleware •Communication with Alert/Reminder via Email/Message etc. •Reporting and Auditing for Review •Decision Support for Risk Control 21Data Science Services & Technology Applications Analysis and Reporting Efficiency Improvement 22© 2021 ClinChoice –Confidential and All Rights Reserved  © 2020 ClinChoice –Confidential and All Rights Reserved Analysis Reporting Automation Statistical Graphics –Waterfall, Swimmer, Spider Plots 23 24eData/eCTD Submission ClinChoice Inc. 1300 Virginia Drive, Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 USA Phone: 215-283-6035 Fax: 215-283-6382 Email: info@clinchoice.com ClinChoice Private Ltd. #729 8th Main 11th Cross, J.P . Towers JP Nagar 3rd Phase Bangalore -560 076 Karnataka, India Phone: +91 80 2658 5551 Email: info@clinchoice.comClinChoice LLC 11 Kalents Street, 0033 Yerevan, Armenia Phone: 374 -60-541515 Email: europe@clinchoice.comClinChoice Limited Suite G48 268 Bath Road, Slough, SL1 4DX Berkshire, United Kingdom Phone: +44 -(0)-1628 -566121 Email: europe@clinchoice.com ClinChoice K.K. THE GATE NIHONBASHI Bld. 3FHigashi  Nihonbashi 3-4-1, Chuo‐ ku Tokyo 104‐0031 Japan  Phone: 81‐3‐6228‐7360  Email: japan@clinchoice.comClinChoice Inc. 26th Floor Wynsum Corporate Plaza 22 F. Ortigas Jr. Road Ortigas Center Pasig City, -1605 Philippines Phone: +632 633 -5176 Email: info@clinchoice.comClinChoice No. 420 Fenglin Road Floor 11 Xuhui District Shanghai 430000, China Email: bd@clinchoice.comTHANK YOU ClinChoice Canada Inc. 2 Robert Speck Parkway, Suite 750 Mississauga, Ontario L4Z 1H8, Canada Phone: 215.283.6035  Email: info@clinchoice.com


 
https://clinchoice.com/improving-data-analysis-operations-through-data-science-technology-innovation/
Improving Data & Analysis Operations | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Improving Data & Analysis Operations Through Data Science & Technology Innovation Improving Data & Analysis Operations Through Data Science & Technology Innovation Your download is now available Download November 29, 2021 | By ClinChoice This past week, ClinChoice participated in the Outsourcing Clinical Trials conference in Boston as a Sponsor. Tiepu Liu, MD, PhD, President of Global Biometrics at ClinChoice, delivered a compelling presentation about our innovative Data Science and Technology solutions. The benefits these solutions provide to our valued clients include better and faster data review and analysis and more informed decision-making. The following is an overview of the general Data Science and Technology services we provide: Overview of the software and technology platforms we utilize to analyze data for our clients: ClinChoice has developed a proprietary data visualization product as part of our biometrics solutions portfolio. This product allows our sponsor clients to view customized, graphic representations of their data in real-time. Our talented data scientists work closely with key personnel at each client to custom tailor our Data Visualization product to your specifications. ClinChoice clients can view a dynamic status dashboard that houses the data from their study. Our programmers integrate the dashboard with other technology that houses your studies data, for example, EDC technology like Medidata RAVE or Oracle Inform. From the dashboard, users can easily navigate and drill down on an individual patient profile. Our clients can easily key into data collected from various sources and identify trends and outliers from this view. Our product also allows for automated analysis and reporting in the form of graphs and charts. These can be extremely useful for signal detection and decision making, such as revealing previously unnoticed key points and assisting decision making. For more information, download the full presentation from the Outsourcing Clinical Trials conference: Link Request a demo of our data science and technology products. This case study shows a real-world example of ClinChoice implementing FSP... Download ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center - Expanding its North American... View Post This review explores questions and considerations around custom-made, adaptable... Download Want to be the first to know about new blogs and resources? Sign up for our mailing list. Please fill out this form to unlock your download Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/what-makes-clinchoice-successful/
What makes Clinchoice successful? - ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » What makes Clinchoice successful? Your download is now available Download November 23, 2021 | By ClinChoice People have always been the cornerstone of success at ClinChoice. Led by strong leadership that gives a depth of experience and direction to advancements, we prepare the next generation of leaders to take on new challenges with skill and integrity. Mahesh Mudnur – President, Asia-Pacific, elaborates on how ClinChoice has been successful for the last 26 years. Watch now to learn how people, platforms, and collaborations have built up a brand that defines excellence. This case study shows a real-world example of ClinChoice implementing FSP... Download ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center - Expanding its North American... View Post This review explores questions and considerations around custom-made, adaptable... Download Want to be the first to know about new blogs and resources? Sign up for our mailing list. Please fill out this form to unlock your download Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/how-do-we-engage-with-our-clients/
How Does ClinChoice Engage With Their Clients? | ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » How do we engage with our clients? How do we engage with our clients? Your download is now available Download November 15, 2021 | By ClinChoice For over 26 years, ClinChoice has been proudly providing deep insights that help leading medical device and life sciences manufacturers bring lifechanging products to market. Mahesh Mudnur , President – Asia-Pacific, and Sridhar Punniamurthi , Director – Statistical Programming, expand on how we focus on our client’s needs and deliver projects on time with quality. Watch now to learn about our steadfast commitment to exceptional life-sciences research for clients of all sizes, from startups to large pharmaceutical companies. ClinChoice is a leading full-service clinical CRO offering high-quality solutions to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device and consumer products clients. We contribute to a safer and better world by helping our sponsor clients accelerate drug and device approvals to market. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated teams who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Our commitment to the highest quality standards, flexibility, and timeline fulfillment has earned us and our clients consistent results. We provide services for the full development lifecycle to a wide range of clients, large and small, including six of the top 10 pharmaceutical companies, as well as small to midsize biotechnology companies. For us, our record of quality means consistency, accuracy and reliability. For you, it means a reliable partner and quality results. This case study shows a real-world example of ClinChoice implementing FSP... Download ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center - Expanding its North American... View Post This review explores questions and considerations around custom-made, adaptable... Download Want to be the first to know about new blogs and resources? Sign up for our mailing list. Please fill out this form to unlock your download Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/get-to-know-clinchoice/
Get to know ClinChoice - ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Get to know ClinChoice Your download is now available Download November 9, 2021 | By ClinChoice In this brief video, Mahesh Mudnur , President – Asia-Pacific, delves into ClinChoice’s past and present. With centers in China, the US, Philippines, and Japan, and over 2200 professionals worldwide, our agility compliments our culture of client service and success. Watch now to learn about our commitment to reliable partnerships and providing deep domain experience in clinical research trials around the world. This case study shows a real-world example of ClinChoice implementing FSP... Download ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center - Expanding its North American... View Post This review explores questions and considerations around custom-made, adaptable... Download Want to be the first to know about new blogs and resources? Sign up for our mailing list. Please fill out this form to unlock your download Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications


 
https://clinchoice.com/answering-questions-surrounding-custom/
https://clinchoicestag.wpengine.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/06/Review-of-QA-on-regulations-for-Custom-made-Medical-Devices.pdf
REVIEW Questions And Answers  OnCustom -made Devices &  Considerations On Adaptable  Medical Devices And Patient - matched Medical DevicesContents INTRODUCTION PERSONALIZED MEDICAL DEVICES: DEFINITIONS AND CATEGORY OVERVIEW CONSIDERATIONS AND APPLICATION OF MDR T O CUSTOM MEDICAL DEVICES CONCLUSIONINTRODUCTION Rapid technological advancements, such as 3 -D printing, have made it possible for  manufacturers to produce personalized medical devices1much faster and on a commercial  scale. The European Medical Device Coordination Group (MDCG) recently issued a Q&A  document2to help address some of the key regulatory questions and clarify ambiguities  regarding custom -made devices (CMDs) defined in the new EU’s MDR3, and adaptable medical  devices and patient -matched medical devices described by the International Medical Device  Regulators Forum (IMDRF)4. PERSONALIZED MEDICAL DEVICES: DEFINITIONS AND CATEGORY OVERVIEW MDR Article 2(3) defines a CMD as any device specifically made per a written prescription of any  person authorized by national law by virtue of that person’s professional qualifications, which  gives, under that person’s responsibility, specific design characteristics, and is intended for the  sole use of a particular patient exclusively to meet their conditions and needs.5MDCG notes  that an authorized person does not have to be a healthcare professional, but any individual  qualified and authorized according to the Member State’s national law. It further clarifies that  the specific design characteristic in the written prescription contains particular information  regarding the design and measured data such as models, dental impressions, material selection  unique to the individual patient’s anatomic -physiological features, and pathological condition. According to MDR Article 2(3), any mass -produced devices adapted to meet the specific  requirements of any professional user and mass -produced devices utilizing industrial  manufacturing processes per the written prescriptions of any authorized person are not  considered CMDs. Since the MDR only provides a definition of CMDs and does not define any  other personalized medical devices that could be, for example, mass -produced, the IMDRF  identified and defined two additional categories of personalized devices: adaptable medical  devices and patient -matching medical devices, respectively. Unlike CMDs, these devices are  typically mass -produced or produced in batches and do not require a written prescription. The  Q&A document notes that the personalized medical devices that do not meet the definition of a  CMD must comply with all relevant sections of the MDR, including conformity assessment,  before placing on the market. 3Adaptable medical devices are intended to be adapted, adjusted, shaped, or assembled per  validated manufacturer’s instructions at the point of care (POC) to meet a patient’s anatomo - physiologic features before use, such as orthotic braces and hearing aids ( otoplastic and  amplifier)6. Per MDR Article 16(1), the individual, usually a healthcare professional, performing  these activities is not considered a manufacturer as long as these modifications do not change  the device’s intended purpose or affect its compliance with applicable requirements.  Patient -matched medical devices are intended to be matched to a patient’s anatomy within a  specified design envelope using techniques such as the scaling of the device based on anatomic  references or using the full anatomic features from patient imaging7. For example, 3D printed  implants from a template model, and DICOM files or contact lenses are made to order and  produced in batches.  As described in the Q&A document, in addition to MDR Annex XIII, CMD manufacturers should  ascertain and apply appropriate requirements of Annex I, implement a Quality Management  System (QMS) commensurate to the risk class of the device, and ensure compliance with all  aspects of Article 10(9). For implantable Class III CMDs, a QMS conformity assessment by a  notified body must be performed following either Annex IX Chapter I or Annex XI Part A.  Additionally, as per Annex XIII Section 2, the CMD manufacturers must establish procedures and  document post -market surveillance reports for Class I devices per Article 85 and Periodic Safety  Update Reports (PSURs) for Class IIa, IIb, and III devices per Article 86. However, CMDs are  exempt from UDI requirements, Summary of Safety and Clinical Performance (SSCP)  requirements, and registration of an appointed person responsible for regulatory compliance  (PRRC) in EUDAMED. Furthermore, the Q&A document clarifies when other devices, parts,  components, or materials specifically intended for the manufacture or use with CMDs may be CE  marked and what regulatory considerations for such “intermediate products” need to be  considered if placed on the market on their own.  MDCG encourages the application of CMD -related MDR requirements, such as risk  management, post -market surveillance, and clinical evaluation life cycle processes, to CMDs  grouped according to the same intended purpose, materials, and processes, same principal  design among other criteria rather than per each CMD. The International Medical Device  Regulators Forum (IMDRF) Personalized Medical Device –Regulatory Pathways8document  provides recommendations regarding regulatory pathways and considerations for applying  regulatory requirements for CMDs, adaptable medical devices, and patient -matched medical  devices. CONSIDERATIONS AND APPLICATION OF MDR T O CUSTOM MEDICAL DEVICES 4Even though the Q&A answers some of the key regulatory questions related to personalized  medical devices, the manufacturers should be prepared to address the inherent complexities of  device customizations and take into consideration all relevant regulatory requirements (e.g.,  intended purpose, risk class, manufacturing or design changes, manufacturing and use of  personalized medical devices with other CE and non -CE product, among other parameters) to  correctly categorize and classify their device, determine appropriate regulatory pathways, and  maintain regulatory compliance.  In summary, implementing the new MDR regulations and further clarification, including MCDG  documents for the manufacturers of personalized medical devices, may require additional  resources and personnel to ensure compliance with the new regulations and post -market  surveillance. Some of these may include: 1.Experienced regulatory intelligence consultants to interpret and apply the MDR, other  MDCG/IMDRF documents, and national laws 2.Liaisons to engage with Health Authorities or other regulatory agencies on behalf of clients  in the EU and other countries to assist clients in meeting regulatory, compliance, and  manufacturing/post -market laws 3.Robust medical device call center with experienced personnel capable of engaging with  relevant external stakeholders (including patients) to collect, document, and analyze  feedback regarding the devices’ quality, performance, and safety in the field 4.Compliant infrastructure for incident reporting and experienced authors of required reports  such as Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR) 5.Appointment of a person responsible for regulatory compliance as defined in the new MDRCONCLUSION 56REFERENCES 1,4,6,7 http://www.imdrf.org/docs/imdrf/final/technical/imdrf -tech -181018 -pmd -definitions -n49.pdf 2 https://ec.europa.eu/health/sites/default/files/md_sector/docs/mdcg_2021 -3_en.pdf 3,5 https://eur -lex.europa.eu/legal -content/EN/ALL/?uri=uriserv:OJ.L_.2017.117.01.0001.01.ENG 8 http://www.imdrf.org/docs/imdrf/final/technical/imdrf -tech -200318 -pmd -rp-n58.pdfABOUT THE AUTHOR Alma brings expertise in regulatory affairs and quality assurance, with over  fifteen years of experience related to medical devices regulations. She  specializes in developing and managing regulatory and quality strategies,  leading regulatory projects, and establishing new processes for  management of clinical trials, CSV and design controls.  ALMA RELJA RAC,CQIA ClinChoice is a global clinical stage Contract Research Organization (CRO),  with over 2000 clinical research professionals in seven different countries  across North America, Asia, and Europe. ClinChoice has been a leading  provider of contract research services offering high -quality solutions to  pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device and consumer products  customers for the past 26 years, working across a wide array of service  functions and therapeutic areas. Under its new brand, ClinChoice continues  to offer high -quality, full -service clinical development and commercial  solutions to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device, and consumer  product companies globally. For our partners, it means a reliable partner  and quality results.ABOUT US


 
https://clinchoice.com/answering-questions-surrounding-custom/
Answering Questions Surrounding Custom, Adaptable, and Patient-Matched Medical Devices - ClinChoice This website stores cookies on your computer. These cookies are used to improve your website experience and provide more personalized services to you, both on this website and through other media. To find out more about the cookies we use, see our Privacy Policy. We won't track your information when you visit our site. But in order to comply with your preferences, we'll have to use just one tiny cookie so that you're not asked to make this choice again. Accept Decline This site uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. Read our Privacy Policy Settings Accept About ClinChoice About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact China Japan About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources About ClinChoice Solutions Therapeutic Areas Expertise Resources Submit RFI/RFP Careers Contact Back to Main Menu About About Leadership Partnerships Our SEG/DEI Commitment Solutions Solutions Overview Biometrics Biostatistics Statistical Programming Data Management CDISC eSubmission Clinical Operations Project Management Clinical Monitoring Site Startup Site Service SMO Drug Safety Case Processing Aggregate Report Development and Submission Signal Management Literature Monitoring Risk Evaluation & Mitigation Safety Data Exchange Agreements Pharmacovigilance System Master File (PSMF) Management Medical Information Call Center (MICC) Solutions Local Safety Officer (LSO) Services Medical Device Safety Medical Device Call Center Literature Monitoring Incident Reporting Medical Writing Regulatory Affairs Market Intelligence and Strategy Electronic Submissions Publishing SPL Conversion Services Global Regulatory CMC Services Company Core Data Sheet Management Services Labeling and Artwork Management Legal Entity Alignment Regulatory Information Management Document Management Product Registration Support Medical Device Regulatory Affairs Regulatory Intelligence Regulatory Compliance Regulatory Strategy Registration Support Technical Document Submission & Approval Preparation Artwork & Labeling Services Copy Review Development Change Control Management Publishing EUDAMED Support Medical Affairs Medical Writing Pharmacology & Toxicology Quality & Compliance Technology Scientific & Strategic Consulting Therapeutic Areas Therapeutic Areas Overview Anti-Infective Autoimmune Diseases COVID-19 Metabolic Musculoskeletal Neurology Oncology Ophthalmology Rare Disease Respiratory Urology Expertise Overview Early Development Phase II-IV Clinical Trials Real-World Evidence Vaccines Medical Devices Consumer Products Natural Products Resources Resources Regulatory Intelligence Home » Answering Questions Surrounding Custom, Adaptable, and Patient-Matched Medical Devices Answering Questions Surrounding Custom, Adaptable, and Patient-Matched Medical Devices Your download is now available Download October 8, 2021 | By ClinChoice Technological advancements in manufacturing make it possible for manufacturers to commercially produce personalized custom medical devices (CMD) much faster. The advancements, when coupled with regulatory changes, can be confusing. That’s why we’ve created this brief review to help clarify the most critical points within recent European Medical Device Regulation (MDR) updates. MDR Article 2(3) defines CMDs as any device specifically made per a prescription lawfully provided by a qualified professional, with specific design characteristics to address that particular patient’s condition or needs. Mass-produced devices adapted to meet the requirements of any professional user and mass-produced devices per the written prescription or an authorized person are not considered CMDS. When it comes to considerations and applications of MDR to custom medical devices, manufacturers should ascertain and apply appropriate regulatory requirements and implement a quality management system commensurate to the type and risk of the device being supplied. Our review further explores post-market surveillance obligations and reports, UDI requirements, and adjacent or intermediary products. Implementing the new MDR requirements and understanding considerations outlined in the MCDG documents for manufacturers of personalized medical devices is complex and may require additional resources and expertise to manage a product through its lifecycle. The article outlines areas that need focus for registration and continuous compliance: Regulatory intelligence Engagement with health authorities and official agencies on behalf of clients in the EU and abroad Medical device call centers and personnel capabilities Incident reporting infrastructure For more details, read the full Review: Questions and Answers on Custom-Made Devices & Considerations on Adaptable Medical Devices & Patient-Matched Medical Devices. This case study shows a real-world example of ClinChoice implementing FSP... Download ClinChoice Opens Canadian Development Center - Expanding its North American... View Post This review explores questions and considerations around custom-made, adaptable... Download Want to be the first to know about new blogs and resources? Sign up for our mailing list. Please fill out this form to unlock your download Interested in ClinChoice? ClinChoice is a leading full-service global CRO that accelerates drug and device approvals to market to contribute to a safer and better world. We do this by combining our 25 years of proven quality and results with expertise in 30+ therapeutic areas, a flexible approach, and dedicated team who enable rapid startups and fast timelines. Contact Us Corporate Headquarters USA 1300 Virginia Drive Suite 408 Fort Washington, PA 19034 Phone +1 215-283-6035 China 11F Building A, Fenglin International Tower 420 Fenglin Road Xuhui District, 200032, Shanghai Phone +86 21 8024 3200 Connect © 2024 ClinChoice. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy Privacy settings Privacy Settings Consent Bar Privacy Settings This site uses functional cookies and external scripts to improve your experience. Which cookies and scripts are used and how they impact your visit is specified on the left. You may change your settings at any time. Your choices will not impact your visit. NOTE: These settings will only apply to the browser and device you are currently using. Consent Bar Enable? Powered by Cookie Information Save my settings Notifications

